TITLE 18

WATER AND SEWERS1

CHAPTER
1.WATER AND SEWER BOARD.
2.WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION.
3.GENERAL WASTEWATER REGULATIONS.
4.INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL WASTEWATER REGULATIONS.
5.CROSS-CONNECTIONS, AUXILIARY INTAKES, ETC.

CHAPTER 1

WATER AND SEWER BOARD

SECTION
18-101.Creation, composition and term of water and sewer board.
18-102.Qualification, bond, oath, organization, compensation, and general
powers and duties of the board and/or its members.
18-103.Board's additional authority and duties.

18-101.Creation, composition and term of water and sewer board. Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-35-407, the city/town hereby establishes the water and sewer board, which shall consist of five (5) members who are property holders who are and have been a resident of the city/town for one (1) year prior to appointment. Initial appointees shall serve from date of appointment for one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4) and five (5) years, respectively, from the next succeeding July 1. Each successor shall be appointed to a five (5) year term. Each successor to a retired member of the board shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years in the same manner, at the next regular meeting of the governing body of the city/town in June next preceding the expiration of the term of office of the retiring member. Appointments to complete unexpired terms of office, vacant for any cause, shall be made in the same manner as the original appointments. Any member of the board may be removed from office for cause as set forth in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-35-410.

[Alternatively, the city/town may appoint a member of the governing body to serve on the board with the following language:]

18-101.Creation, composition and term of water and sewer board. Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-35-407, the city/town hereby establishes the water and sewer board, which shall consist of five (5) members who are property holders who are and have been a resident of the city/town for one (1) year prior to appointment. Initial appointees shall serve from date of appointment for one (1), two (2), three (3), and four (4) years, respectively, from the succeeding the next July 1. Each successor shall be appointed to a five (5) year term. The fifth member shall be appointed from among the members of the governing body, and the member's term shall end with the member's term of office. Each successor to a retired member of the board shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years in the same manner, at the next regular meeting of the governing body of the city/town in June next preceding the expiration of the term of office of the retiring member. Appointments to complete unexpired terms of office, vacant for any cause, shall be made in the same manner as the original appointments. Any member of the board may be removed from office for cause as set forth in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-35-410.

18-102. Qualifications, bond, oath, organization, compensation, and general powers and duties of the board and/or its members. The members of the water and sewer board shall qualify in the manner required by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-35-401, et seq. Members shall be covered by the city's/town's blanket bond, and after having taken the oath of office required for the governing officials of the City/Town of ______________, the members shall meet for the purpose of conducting the organization of the board as required in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-35-409. The members of the board shall receive an allowance of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month for attendance at meetings, and they shall be allowed necessary traveling and other expenses while engaged in the business of the board. 
After the board has perfected its organization, it shall have and exercise all the powers and duties imposed on it by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-35-401, et seq. and shall operate and function in the manner and shall keep the records and accounts required by said chapter, subject to the making of such additional provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-35-401, et seq. 

18-103.Board's additional authority and duties. (1) The water and sewer board, constituted and appointed as provided in this chapter and referred to in this § 18-103 as the "board," has the power to take all steps and proceedings and to make and enter into all contracts and agreements necessary or incidental to the performance of its duties and the execution of its powers under this part, subject only to limitations on matters requiring approval by the governing body of the city/town in question. 
(2)	From and after its first meeting, the board shall act in an advisory capacity to the governing body of the city/town in all matters pertaining to the financing of the enterprise and the acquisition of any or all parts of the proposed works or extensions to the works by purchase, condemnation or construction, and it is the board's duty to collect and furnish all necessary data and information, and to recommend such appropriate action by the governing body as may appear to the board to be necessary from time to time. 
(3)	The board shall have the power, and it shall be the board's duty, to proceed with all matters pertaining to construction, extensions, improvements and repairs necessary to proper completion of the works. After completion and acceptance of the works by the board, the board shall have the power, and it shall be its duty, to proceed with all matters and perform everything necessary to the proper operation of the works and collection of charges for services rendered, subject only to the limitation of funds available for operation and maintenance. To this end, the board may employ such employees as in its judgment may be necessary and may fix their compensation, all of whom shall do such work as the board shall direct. The board shall have power to employ engineers and attorneys whenever in its judgment such services are necessary. 
Optional subsection for submission of rules and regulations to governing body: 
	(4)	Rules and regulations established by the water and sewer board shall become effective only after having been submitted to the city/town council at a regular meeting, and submitted to both the mayor and city/town recorder which a copy shall be available for public inspection at all normal business hours. All changes in the rules shall be accomplished in the manner herein above set forth. 
CHAPTER 2

WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION

SECTION
18-201.Application and scope.
18-202.Definitions.
18-203.Application and contract for service.
18-204.Service charges for temporary service.
18-205.Connection charges.
18-206.Water and sewer main extensions.
18-207.Water and sewer main extension variances.
18-208.Meters.
18-209.Meter tests.
18-210.Multiple services through a single meter.
18-211.Customer billing and payment policy.
18-212.Termination or refusal of service.
18-213.Termination of service by customer.
18-214.Access to customers' premises.
18-215.Inspections.
18-216.Customer's responsibility for system's property.
18-217.Customer's responsibility for violations.
18-218.Supply and resale of water.
18-219.Unauthorized use of or interference with water supply.
18-220.Limited use of unmetered private fire line.
18-221.Damages to property due to water pressure.
18-222.Liability for cutoff failures.
18-223.Restricted use of water.
18-224.Interruption of service.
18-225.Schedule of rates.

18-201.Application and scope. The provisions of this chapter are a part of all contracts for receiving water and sewer service from the city/town and shall apply whether the service is based upon contract, agreement, signed application, or otherwise.

18-202.Definitions. (1) "Customer" means any person, firm, or corporation who receives water and/or sewer service from the city/town under either an express or implied contract.
(2)	"Dwelling" means any single residential unit or house occupied for residential purposes. Each separate apartment unit, duplex unit or other multiple dwelling unit shall be considered a separate dwelling.
(3)	"Premise" means any structure or group of structures operated as a single business or enterprise, provided, however, the term "premise" shall not include more than one (1) dwelling.
(4)	"Service line" shall consist of the pipe line extending from any water or sewer main of the city/town to private property. Where a meter and meter box are located on private property, the service line shall be construed to include the pipe line extending from the city's/town's water main to and including the meter and meter box.

18-203.Application and contract for service. Each prospective customer desiring water and/or sewer service will be required to sign a standard form contract and pay a nonrefundable customer processing fee of __________ ($_______) [service deposit of __________ ($_______)] before service is supplied. [The service deposit shall be refundable if and only if the city/town cannot supply service in accordance with the terms of this chapter.] If, for any reason, a customer, after signing a contract for service, does not take such service by reason of not occupying the premises or otherwise, he shall reimburse the city/town for the expense incurred by reason of its endeavor to furnish such service.
The receipt of a prospective customer's application for service shall not obligate the city/town to render the service applied for. [If the service applied for cannot be supplied in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the liability of the city/town to the applicant shall be limited to the return of any service deposit made by such applicant.]

18-204.Service charges for temporary service. Cus­tomers requiring temporary service shall pay all costs for connection and disconnection incidental to the supplying and removing of service in addition to the regular charge for water and/or sewer service.

18-205.Connection charges. Service lines will be laid by the city/town from its mains to the property line at the expense of the applicant for service. The location of such lines will be determined by the city/town.
Before a new water or sewer service line will be laid by the city/town, the applicant shall pay a nonrefundable connection charge of __________ ($_______). 
When a service line is completed, the city/town shall be responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of such service line from the main to and including the meter and meter box, and such portion of the service line shall belong to the city/town. The remaining portion of the service line beyond the meter box (or property line, in the case of sewers) shall belong to and be the responsibility of the customer.

18-206.Water and sewer main extensions.2 Persons desiring water and/or sewer main extensions must pay all of the cost of making such extensions.
All such extensions shall be installed either by city/town forces or by other forces working directly under the supervision of the city/town in accordance with plans and specifications prepared by an engineer registered with the State of Tennessee.
Upon completion of such extensions and their approval by the city/town, such water and/or sewer mains shall become the property of the city/town. The persons paying the cost of constructing such mains shall execute any written instruments requested by the city/town to provide evidence of the city's/town's title to such mains. In consideration of such mains being transferred to it, the city/town shall incorporate said mains as an integral part of the municipal water and sewer systems and shall furnish water and sewer service therefrom in accordance with these rules and regulations, subject always to such limitations as may exist because of the size and elevation of the mains.

18-207.Water and sewer main extension variances. Whenever the board of mayor and aldermen is of the opin­ion that it is to the best interest of the city/town and its inhabitants to construct a water and/or sewer main extension without requiring strict compliance with the preceding section, such extension may be constructed upon such terms and conditions as shall be approved by the board of mayor and aldermen.
The authority to make water and/or sewer main extensions under the preceding section is permissive only and nothing contained therein shall be construed as requiring the city/town to make such extensions or to furnish service to any person or persons.

18-208.Meters. All meters shall be installed, tested, repaired, and removed only by the city/town.
No one shall do anything which will in any way interfere with or prevent the operation of a meter. No one shall tamper with or work on a water meter without the written permission of the city/town. No one shall install any pipe or other device which will cause water to pass through or around a meter without the passage of such water being registered fully by the meter.

18-209.Meter tests. The city/town will, at its own expense, make routine tests of meters when it considers such tests desirable.
In testing meters, the water passing through a meter will be weighed or measured at various rates of discharge and under varying pressures. To be considered accurate, the meter registration shall check with the weighed or measured amounts of water within the percentage shown in the following table:
Meter Size					Percentage
5/8", 3/4", 1", 2"					2%
3"							3%
4"							4%
6"							5%
The city/town will also make tests or inspections of its meters at the request of the customer. However, if a test requested by a customer shows a meter to be accurate within the limits stated above, the customer shall pay a meter testing charge in the amount stated in the following table:
Meter Size					Test Charge
5/8", 3/4", 1"						$12.00
1-1/2", 2"						15.00
3"							18.00
4"							22.00
6" and over						30.00
If such test shows a meter not to be accurate within such limits, the cost of such meter test shall be borne by the city/town.

18-210.Multiple services through a single meter. No customer shall supply water service to more than one dwelling, premise, duplex unit, apartment or other multiple dwelling unit from a single service line and meter without first obtaining the written permission of the city/town.
	Where the city/town allows more than one (1) dwelling, premise, duplex unit, apartment or other multiple dwelling unit to be served through a single service line and meter, the amount of water used by all the dwellings, premises, duplex units, apartments or other multiple dwelling units served through a single service line and meter shall be allocated to each separate dwelling, premise, duplex unit, apartment or other multiple dwelling unit served. The water charge of each such dwelling, premise, duplex unit, apartment or other multiple dwelling unit thus served shall be computed just as if each such dwelling, premise, duplex unit, apartment or other multiple dwelling unit had received through a separately metered service the amount of water so allocated to it, such computation to be made at the city's/town's applicable water rates schedule, including the provisions as to minimum bills. The separate charges for each dwelling, premise, duplex unit, apartment or other multiple dwelling unit served through a single service line meter shall then be added together, and the sum thereof shall be billed to the customer in whose name the service is supplied.

18-211.Customer billing and payment policy. Water and sewer bills shall be rendered monthly and shall designate a standard net payment period for all members of not less than              (  ) days after the date of the bill. Failure to receive a bill will not release a customer from payment obligation. There is established for all members a late payment charge not to exceed __________ (___%) for any portion of the bill paid after the net payment period.
Payment must be received in the water and sewer department no later than 4:30 P.M. on the due date. If the due date falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday, net payment will be accepted if paid on the next business day no later than 4:30 P.M.
If a meter fails to register properly, or if a meter is removed to be tested or repaired, or if water is received other than through a meter, the city/town reserves the right to render an estimated bill based on the best information available.

18-212.Termination or refusal of service. (1) Basis of termination or refusal. The city/town shall have the right to discontinue water and sewer service or to refuse to connect service for a violation of, or a failure to comply with, any of the following:
(a)	These rules and regulations, including the nonpayment of bills.
(b)	The customer's application for service.
(c)	The customer's contract for service.
The right to discontinue service shall apply to all water and sewer services received through collective single connections or services, even though more than one (1) customer or tenant is furnished services therefrom, and even though the delinquency or violation is limited to only one (1) such customer or tenant.
(2)	Termination of service. Reasonable written notice shall be given to the customer before termination of water service according to the following terms and conditions:
(a)	Written notice of termination (cut-off) shall be given to the customer at least five (5) days prior to the scheduled date of termination. The cut-off notice shall specify the reason for the cut-off, and
(i)	The amount due, including other charges.
(ii)	The last date to avoid service termination.
(iii)	Notification of the customer's right to a hearing prior to service termination, and, in the case of nonpayment of bills, of the availability of special counseling for emergency and hardship cases.
(b)	In the case of termination for nonpayment of bills, the employee carrying out the termination procedure will attempt before disconnecting service to contact the customer at the premises in a final effort to collect payment and avoid termination. If the customer is not at home, service may be left connected for one (1) additional day and a further notice left at a location conspicuous to the customer.
(c)	Hearings for service termination, including for nonpayment of bills, will be held by appointment at the company office between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. on any business day, or by special request and appointment a hearing may be scheduled outside those hours.
(d)	Termination will not be made on any preceding day when the water and sewer department is scheduled to be closed.
(e)	If a customer does not request a hearing, or, in the case of nonpayment of a bill, does not makes payment of the bill, or does not otherwise correct the problem that resulted in the notice of termination in a manner satisfactory to the water and sewer department, the same shall proceed on schedule with service termination.
(f)	Service termination for any reason shall be reconnected only after the payment of all charges due or satisfactory arrangements for payment have been made, or the correction of the problem that resulted in the termination of service in a manner satisfactory to the water and sewer department, plus the payment of a reconnection charge of __________ ($_______) if the reconnection is made during regular business hours, or __________ ($_______) if the reconnection is made after regular business hours.

18-213.Termination of service by customer. Customers who have fulfilled their contract terms and wish to discontinue service must give at least three (3) days written notice to that effect unless the contract specifies otherwise. Notice to discontinue service prior to the expiration of a contract term will not relieve the customer from any minimum or guaranteed payment under such contract or applicable rate schedule.
When service is being furnished to an occupant of premises under a contract not in the occupant's name, the city/town reserves the right to impose the following conditions on the right of the customer to discontinue service under such a contract:
(1)	Written notice of the customer's desire for such service to be discontinued may be required; and the city/town shall have the right to continue such service for a period of not to exceed ten (10) days after receipt of such written notice, during which time the customer shall be responsible for all charges for such service. If the city/town should continue service after such ten (10) day period subsequent to the receipt of the customer's written notice to discontinue service, the customer shall not be responsible for charges for any service furnished after the expiration of the ten (10) day period.
(2)	During the ten (10) day period, the occupant of premises to which service has been ordered discon­tinued by a customer other than such occupant, may be allowed by the city/town to enter into a contract for service in the occupant's own name upon the occupant's complying with these rules and regulations with respect to a new application for service.

18-214.Access to customers' premises. The city's/town's iden­tified representatives and employees shall be granted access to all customers' premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of reading meters, for testing, inspecting, repairing, removing, and replacing all equipment belonging to the city/town, and for inspecting customers' plumbing and premises generally in order to secure compliance with these rules and regulations.

18-215.Inspections. The city/town shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, to inspect any installation or plumbing system before water and/or sewer service is furnished or at any later time. The city/town reserves the right to refuse service or to discontinue service to any premises not in compliance with any special contract, these rules and regulations, or other requirements of the city/town.
Any failure to inspect or reject a customer's installa­tion or plumbing system shall not render the city/town liable or responsible for any loss or damage which might have been avoided had such inspection or rejection been made.

18-216.Customer's responsibility for system's property. Except as herein elsewhere expressly provided, all meters, service connections, and other equipment furnished by or for the city/town shall be and remain the property of the city/town. Each customer shall provide space for and exercise proper care to protect the property of the city/town on his premises. In the event of loss or damage to such prop­erty arising from the neglect of a customer to care for it properly, the cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the customer.

18-217.Customer's responsibility for violations. Where the city/town furnishes water and/or sewer service to a customer, such customer shall be responsible for all violations of these rules and regulations which occur on the prem­ises so served. Personal participation by the customer in any such violations shall not be necessary to impose such personal responsibility on him.

18-218.Supply and resale of water. All water shall be supplied within the city/town exclusively by the city/town, and no customer shall, directly or indirectly, sell, sub­let, assign, or otherwise dispose of the water or any part thereof except with written permission from the city/town.

18-219.Unauthorized use of or interference with water supply. No person shall turn on or turn off any of the city's/town's stop cocks, valves, hydrants, spigots, or fire plugs without permission or authority from the city/town.

18-220.Limited use of unmetered private fire line. Where a private fire line is not metered, no water shall be used from such line or from any fire hydrant thereon, except to fight fire or except when being inspected in the presence of an authorized agent of the city/town.
All private fire hydrants shall be sealed by the city/town, and shall be inspected at regular intervals to see that they are in proper condition and that no water is being used therefrom in violation of these rules and regulations. When the seal is broken on account of fire, or for any other reason, the customer taking such service shall immediately give the city/town a written notice of such occurrence.

18-221.Damages to property due to water pressure. The city/town shall not be liable to any customer for damages caused to his plumbing or property by high pressure, low pressure, or fluctuations in pressure in the city's/town's water mains.

18-222.Liability for cutoff failures. The city's/town's liability shall be limited to the forfeiture of the right to charge a customer for water that is not used but is received from a service line under any of the following circumstances:
(1)	After receipt of at least ten (10) days' written notice to cut off water service, the city/town has failed to cut off such service.
(2)	The city/town has attempted to cut off a service but such service has not been completely cut off.
(3)	The city/town has completely cut off a service but subsequently the cutoff develops a leak or is turned on again so that water enters the customer's pipes from the city's/town's main.
Except to the extent stated above, the city/town shall not be liable for any loss or damage resulting from cutoff failures. If a customer wishes to avoid possible damage for cutoff failures, the customer shall rely exclusively on privately owned cutoffs and not on the city's/town's cutoff. Also, the customer (and not the city/town) shall be responsible for seeing that his plumbing is properly drained and is kept properly drained, after his water service has been cut off.

18-223.Restricted use of water. In times of emergencies or in times of water shortage, the city/town reserves the right to restrict the purposes for which water may be used by a customer and the amount of water which a customer may use.

18-224.Interruption of service. The city/town will endeavor to furnish continuous water and sewer service, but does not guarantee to the customer any fixed pressure or continuous service. The city/town shall not be liable for any damages for any interruption of service whatsoever.
In connection with the operation, maintenance, repair, and extension of the municipal water and sewer systems, the water supply may be shut off without notice when necessary or desirable, and each customer must be prepared for such emergencies. The city/town shall not be liable for any damages from such interruption of service or for damages from the resumption of service without notice after any such interruption.

18-225.Schedule of rates.3 All water and sewer service shall be furnished under such rate schedules as the city/town may from time to time adopt by appropriate ordinance.
CHAPTER 3

GENERAL WASTEWATER REGULATIONS

SECTION
18-301.Purpose and policy.
18-302.Administrative
18-303.Definitions.
18-304.Proper waste disposal required.
18-305.Private domestic wastewater disposal.
18-306.Connection to public sewers.
18-307.Septic tank effluent pump or grinder pump wastewater systems.
18-308.Regulation of holding tank waste disposal or trucked in waste.
18-309.Discharge regulations.
18-310.Enforcement and abatement.

18-301.Purpose and policy. This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the City/Town of ___________, Tennessee, wastewater treatment system and enables the city/town to comply with the Federal Clean Water Act and the state Water Quality Control Act and rules adopted pursuant to these acts. The objectives of this chapter are:
(1)	To protect public health;
(2)	To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal wastewater treatment facility, which will interfere with the system operation;
(3)	 To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater treatment facility that will pass through the facility, inadequately treated, into the receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with the treatment facility;
(4)	To protect facility personnel who may be affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
(5)	To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge from the facility;
(6)	To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of operation, maintenance, and improvement of the facility; and
(7)	To enable the city/town to comply with its National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit conditions, sludge and biosolid use and disposal requirement, and any other federal or state industrial pretreatment rules to which the facility is subject. 
In meeting these objectives, this chapter provides that all persons in the service area of the City/Town of ___________ must have adequate wastewater treatment either in the form of a connection to the municipal wastewater treatment system or, where the system is not available, an appropriate private disposal system. 
This chapter shall apply to all users inside or outside the city/town who are, by implied contract or written agreement with the city/town, dischargers of applicable wastewater to the wastewater treatment facility. Chapter 3 provides for the issuance of permits to system users, for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures for industrial users or other users whose discharge can interfere with or cause violations to occur at the wastewater treatment facility. Chapter 3 details permitting requirements including the setting of fees for the full and equitable distribution of costs resulting from the operation, maintenance, and capital recovery of the wastewater treatment system and from other activities required by the enforcement and administrative program established herein.

18-302.Administrative. Except as otherwise provided herein, the local administrative officer of the city/town shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter.

18-303.Definitions. Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated:
(1)	"Act" or "the Act." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended and found in 33 U.S.C. § 1251, et seq.
(2)	"Administrator." The administrator or the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(3)	"Approval authority." The Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation, Division of Water Pollution Control.
(4)	"Authorized or duly authorized representative" of industrial user:
(a)	If the user is a corporation:
(i)	The president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
(ii)	The manager of one (1) or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can insure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures. 
(b)	If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or proprietor, respectively.
(c)	If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental agency: a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of the activities of the governmental facility, or their designee.
(d)	The individual described in paragraphs (a)-(c), above, may designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to the city/town.
(5)	"Best Management Practices" or "BMPs" means schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in § 18-309. BMPs also include treatment requirement, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage. 
(6)	"Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD)." The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure for five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C) expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/l)).
(7)	"Building sewer." A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to the publicly owned sewer collection system.
(8)	"Categorical standards." The National Categorical Pretreatment Standards as found in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-471.
(9)	"Commissioner." The commissioner of environment and conservation or the commissioner's duly authorized representative and, in the event of the commissioner's absence or a vacancy in the office of commissioner, the deputy commissioner.
(10)	"Compatible pollutant" means BOD, suspended solids, pH, fecal coliform bacteria, and such additional pollutants as are now or may in the future be specified and controlled in the city's/town's NPDES permit for its wastewater treatment works where sewer works have been designed and used to reduce or remove such pollutants.
(11)	"Composite sample." A sample composed of two (2) or more discrete samples. The aggregate sample will reflect the average water quality covering the compositing or sample period.
(12)	"Control authority." The term "control authority" shall refer to the "approval authority," defined herein above; or the local hearing authority if the city/town has an approved pretreatment program under the provisions of 40 CFR 403.11.
(13)	"Cooling water." The water discharge from any use such as air conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
(14)	"Customer." Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or group who receives sewer service from the city/town under either an express or implied contract requiring payment to the city/town for such service.
(15)	"Daily maximum." The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a pollutant (except pH) collected during a calendar day. The daily maximum for pH is the highest value tested during a twenty-four (24) hour calendar day. 
(16)	"Daily maximum limit." The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant during a calendar day. Where the limit is expressed in units of mass, the limit is the maximum amount of total mass of the pollutant that can be discharged during the calendar day. Where the limit is expressed in concentration, it is the arithmetic average of all concentration measurements taken during the calendar day. 
(17)	"Direct discharge." The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly to the waters of the State of Tennessee.
(18)	"Domestic wastewater." Wastewater that is generated by a single family, apartment or other dwelling unit or dwelling unit equivalent or commercial establishment containing sanitary facilities for the disposal of wastewater and used for residential or commercial purposes only.
(19)	"Environmental Protection Agency" or "EPA." The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official of the said agency.
(20)	"Garbage." Solid wastes generated from any domestic, commercial or industrial source.
(21)	"Grab sample." A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one (1) time basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and is collected over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes. Grab sampling procedure: Where composite sampling is not an appropriate sampling technique, a grab sample(s) shall be taken to obtain influent and effluent operational data. Collection of influent grab samples should precede collection of effluent samples by approximately one (1) detention period. The detention period is to be based on a twenty-four (24) hour average daily flow value. The average daily flow used will be based upon the average of the daily flows during the same month of the previous year. Grab samples will be required, for example, where the parameters being evaluated are those, such as cyanide and phenol, which may not be held for any extended period because of biological, chemical or physical interactions which take place after sample collection and affect the results.
(22)	"Grease interceptor." An interceptor whose rated flow is fifty (50) g.p.m. (gallons per minute) or less and is generally located inside the building.
(23)	"Grease trap." An interceptor whose rated flow is fifty (50) g.p.m. or more and is located outside the building.
(24)	"Holding tank waste." Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum pump tank trucks.
(25)	"Incompatible pollutant." Any pollutant which is not a "compatible pollutant" as defined in this section.
(26)	"Indirect discharge." The introduction of pollutants into the WWF from any non-domestic source.
(27)	"Industrial user." A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a "discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
(28)	"Industrial wastes." Any liquid, solid, or gaseous substance, or combination thereof, or form of energy including heat, resulting from any process of industry, manufacture, trade, food processing or preparation, or business or from the development of any natural resource.
(29)	"Instantaneous limit." The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
(30)	"Interceptor." A device designed and installed to separate and retain for removal, by automatic or manual means, deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes, while permitting normal sewage or waste to discharge into the drainage system by gravity.
(31)	"Interference." A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the WWF, its treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal, or exceeds the design capacity of the treatment works or collection system.
(32)	"Local administrative officer." The chief administrative officer of the local hearing authority.
(33)	"Local hearing authority." The board of mayor and aldermen or such person or persons appointed by the board to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter and conduct hearings pursuant to section 305(2) of this section.
(34)	"National categorical pretreatment standard." Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to a specific category of industrial users.
(35)	"NAICS, North American Industrial Classification System." A system of industrial classification jointly agreed upon by Canada, Mexico and the United States. It replaces the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system.
(36)	"New source." (a) Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the Clean Water Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
(i)	The building structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
(ii)	The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or
(iii)	The production or wastewater generating processes of the building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should be considered. 
(b)	Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of subsections (a)(ii) or (a)(iii) of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
(c)	Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has commenced if the owner or operator has:
(i)	Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous onsite construction program:
(A)	Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
(B)	Significant site preparation work including cleaning, excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
(ii)	Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph
(37)	"NPDES (National Pollution Discharge Elimination System)." The program for issuing, conditioning, and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants from point sources into navigable waters, the contiguous zone, and the oceans pursuant to section 402 of the Clean Water Act as amended (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
(38)	"Pass-through." A discharge which exits the Wastewater Facility (WWF) into waters of the state in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the WWF's NPDES permit including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation. 
(39)	"Person." Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
(40)	"pH." The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
(41)	"Pollutant." Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical waste, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor discharge into water).
(42)	"Pollution." The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
(43)	"Pretreatment or treatment." The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, biological processes, or process changes or other means, except through dilution as prohibited by 40 CFR section 403.6(d).
(44)	"Pretreatment coordinator." The person designated by the local administrative officer or his authorized representative to supervise the operation of the pretreatment program.
(45)	"Pretreatment requirements." Any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an industrial user.
(46)	"Pretreatment standards or standards." A prohibited discharge standard, categorical pretreatment standard and local limit.
(47)	"Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)." A treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the municipality (as defined by section 502(4) of the Act). This definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. The term also means the municipality as defined in section 502(4) of the Act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works. See WWF, Wastewater Facility, found in definition number (63), below.
(48)	"Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
(49)	"Significant industrial user." The term significant industrial user means:
(a)	All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N; or
		(b)	Any other industrial user that: discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day or more of process wastewater to the WWF (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater); contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent (5%) or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or is designated as such by the control authority as defined in 40 CFR 403.3(f) on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the WWF's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6)).
(50)	"Significant noncompliance." Per Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs.  0400-40-14-.08(6)(b)8. 
(a)	 Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken for each parameter taken during a six (6) month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limit. 
(b)	Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH). TRC calculations for pH are not required.
(c)	Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement (daily maximum or longer-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the WWF determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including endangering the health of WWF personnel or the general public).
(d)	Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the WWF's exercise of its emergency authority under § 18-405(1)(b)(i)(D), emergency order, to halt or prevent such a discharge.
(e)	Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance.
(f)	Failure to provide, within forty-five (45) days after their due date, required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules. 
(g)	Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
(h)	Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a violation of best management practices, which the WWF determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(i)	Continuously monitored pH violations that exceed limits for a time period greater than fifty (50) minutes or exceed limits by more than 0.5 s.u. more than eight (8) times in four (4) hours.
(51)	"Slug." Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in any other way violate the WWF's regulations, local limits, or permit conditions.
(52)	"Standard Industrial Classification (SIC)." A classification pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
(53)	"State." The State of Tennessee.
(54)	"Storm sewer or storm drain." A pipe or conduit which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes. It may, however, carry cooling waters and unpolluted waters, upon approval of the superintendent.
(55)	"Stormwater." Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation and resulting therefrom.
(56)	"Superintendent." The local administrative officer or person designated by him to supervise the operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his duly authorized representative.
(57)	"Surcharge." An additional fee assessed to a user who discharges compatible pollutants at concentrations above the established surcharge limits. Surcharge limits are the level at which the permit holder will be billed higher rates to offset the cost of treating wastewater which exceeds the surcharge limits. Exceeding a surcharge limit but not a monthly average or daily maximum limit will not result in enforcement action.
(58)	"Suspended solids." The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
(59)	"Town." (City/Town) The Board of Mayor and Aldermen, City/Town of ___________, Tennessee.
(60)	"Toxic pollutant." Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in regulations published by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under the provision of CWA 307(a) or other Acts.
(61)	"Twenty-four (24) hour flow proportional composite sample." A sample consisting of several sample portions collected during a twenty-four (24) hour period in which the portions of a sample are proportioned to the flow and combined to form a representative sample.
(62)	"User." The owner, tenant or occupant of any lot or parcel of land connected to a sanitary sewer, or for which a sanitary sewer line is available if a municipality levies a sewer charge on the basis of such availability, Tennessee Code Annotated, § 68-221-201.
(63)	"Wastewater." The liquid and water carried industrial or domestic wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted to enter the WWF.
(64)	"Wastewater facility." Any or all of the following: the collection/transmission system, treatment plant, and the reuse or disposal system, which is owned by any person. This definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial waste of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a WWF treatment plant. The term also means the municipality as defined in section 502(4) of the Federal Clean Water Act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works. WWF was formally known as a POTW, or Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
(65)	"Waters of the state." All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems, and other bodies of accumulation of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, that are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(66)	"Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs. 0400-40-14." Chapter 0400-40-14 of the Rules and Regulations of the State of Tennessee, Pretreatment Requirements.

18-304.Proper waste disposal required. (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the service area of the city/town, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(2)	It shall be unlawful to discharge to any waters of the state within the service area of the city/town any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter or city/town or state regulations.
(3)	Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(4)	Except as provided in subsection (6) below, the owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the service area in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper private or public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Where public sewer is available property owners shall within sixty (60) days after date of official notice to do so, connect to the public sewer. Service is considered "available" when a public sewer main is located in an easement, right-of-way, road or public access way which abuts the property. 	(5)	Discharging into the sanitary sewer without permission of the city/town is strictly prohibited and is deemed "theft of service."
(6)	Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of (4) above, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of § 18-305.
(7)	The owner of a manufacturing facility may discharge wastewater to the waters of the state provided that he obtains an NPDES permit and meets all requirements of the Federal Clean Water Act, the NPDES permit, and any other applicable local, state, or federal statutes and regulations.
(8)	Users have a duty to comply with the provisions of this section in order for the city/town to fulfill the stated policy and purpose. Significant industrial users must comply with the provisions of this section and applicable state and federal rules according to the nature of the industrial discharge. 

18-305.Private domestic wastewater disposal. (1) Availability.  
(a)	Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of § 18-304(4), the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer is available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of the applicable local and state regulations.
(b)	The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city/town. When it becomes necessary to clean septic tanks, the sludge may be disposed of only according to applicable federal and state regulations.
(c)	Where a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days after date of official notice from the city/town to do so.
(2)	Requirements. (a) The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewerage disposal system shall comply with all local or state regulations. Before commencement of construction of a private sewerage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written approval from the county health department. The application for such approval shall be made on a form furnished by the county health department which the applicant shall supplement with any plans or specifications that the department has requested.
(b)	Approval for a private sewerage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state authorities, who shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction.
(c)	The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation, and the county health department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to waters of Tennessee.
(d)	No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any additional or future requirements that may be imposed by the city/town and the county health department.

18-306.Connection to public sewers. (1) Application for service.  
(a)	 There shall be two (2) classifications of service:
(i)	Residential; and 
(ii)	Service to commercial, industrial and other nonresidential establishments. 
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application for connection on a special form furnished by the city/town. Applicants for service to commercial and industrial establishments shall be required to furnish information about all waste producing activities, wastewater characteristics and constituents. The application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. Details regarding commercial and industrial permits include but are not limited to those required by this section. Service connection fees for establishing new sewer service are paid to the city/town. Industrial user discharge permit fees may also apply. The receipt by the city/town of a prospective customer's application for connection shall not obligate the city/town to render the connection. If the service applied for cannot be supplied in accordance with this chapter and the city/town's rules and regulations and general practice, or state and federal requirement, the connection charge will be refunded in full, and there shall be no liability of the city/town to the applicant for such service.
(b)	 Users shall notify the city/town of any proposed new introduction of wastewater constituents or any proposed change in the volume or character of the wastewater being discharged to the system a minimum of sixty (60) days prior to the change. The city/town may deny or limit this new introduction or change based upon the information submitted in the notification.
(2)	Prohibited connections. No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, sump pumps, basement wall seepage or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, area way drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such connections which already exist on the effective date of this section shall be completely and permanently disconnected within sixty (60) days of the effective day of this section. The owners of any building sewer having such connections, leaks or defects shall bear all of the costs incidental to removal of such sources. Pipes, sumps and pumps for such sources of ground water shall be separate from the sanitary sewer. 
(3)	Physical connection to public sewer. (a) No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof. The city/town shall make all connections to the public sewer upon the property owner first submitting a connection application to the city/town. 
The connection application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A service connection fee shall be paid to the city/town at the time the application is filed.
The applicant is responsible for excavation and installation of the building sewer which is located on private property. The city/town will inspect the installation prior to backfilling and make the connection to the public sewer.
(b)	All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and inspection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner including all service and connection fees. The owner shall indemnify the city/town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(c)	A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one (1) building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one (1) building sewer. Where property is subdivided and buildings use a common building sewer are now located on separate properties, the building sewers must be separated within sixty (60) days. 
(d)	Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and tested by the superintendent to meet all requirements of this chapter. All others may be sealed to the specifications of the superintendent.
(e)	Building sewers shall conform to the following requirements:
(i)	The minimum size of a building sewer shall be as follows: Conventional sewer system four inches (4").
(ii)	The minimum depth of a building sewer shall be eighteen inches (18").
(iii)	Building sewers shall be laid on the following grades: four inch (4") sewers - one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot.
Larger building sewers shall be laid on a grade that will produce a velocity when flowing full of at least two feet (2') feet per second.
(iv)	Building sewers shall be installed in uniform alignment at uniform slopes.
(v)	Building sewers shall be constructed only of polyvinyl chloride pipe Schedule 40 or better. Joints shall be solvent welded or compression gaskets designed for the type of pipe used. No other joints shall be acceptable.
(vi)	Cleanouts shall be provided to allow cleaning in the direction of flow. A cleanout shall be located five feet (5') outside of the building, as it crosses the property line and one (1) at each change of direction of the building sewer which is greater than forty-five degrees (45°). Additional cleanouts shall be placed not more than seventy-five feet (75') apart in horizontal building sewers of six-inch (6") nominal diameter and not more than one hundred feet (100') apart for larger pipes. Cleanouts shall be extended to or above the finished grade level directly above the place where the cleanout is installed and protected from damage. A "Y" (wye) and one-eighth (1/8) bend shall be used for the cleanout base. Cleanouts shall not be smaller than four inches (4"). Blockages on the property owner's side of the property line cleanout are the responsibility of the property owner.
(vii)	Connections of building sewers to the public sewer system shall be made only by the city/town and shall be made at the appropriate existing wyes or tee branch using compression type couplings or collar type rubber joint with stainless steel bands. Where existing wye or tee branches are not available, connections of building services shall be made by either removing a length of pipe and replacing it with a wye or tee fitting using flexible neoprene adapters with stainless steel bands of a type approved by the superintendent. Bedding must support pipe to prevent damage or sagging. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
(viii)	In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved pump system according to § 18-307 and discharged to the building sewer at the expense of the owner.
(ix)	The methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing, testing, backfilling the trench, or other activities in the construction of a building sewer which have not been described above shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city/town or to the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications by the ASTM. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent before installation.
(x)	An installed building sewer shall be gastight and watertight.
(f)	All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city/town.
(g)	No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, basement drains, sump pumps, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(h)	Inspection of connections. 
(i)	The sewer connection and all building sewers from the building to the public sewer main line shall be inspected before the underground portion is covered, by the superintendent or his authorized representative.
(ii)	The applicant for discharge shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
(4)	Maintenance of building sewers. (a) Each individual property owner shall be entirely responsible for the construction, maintenance, repair or replacement of the building sewer as deemed necessary by the superintendent to meet specifications of the city/town. Owners failing to maintain or repair building sewers or who allow stormwater or ground water to enter the sanitary sewer may face enforcement action by the superintendent up to and including discontinuation of water and sewer service.
(b) 	The city/town may inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied with.
(c)	The point of division between the building sewer and the city/town owned sewer tap or service connection shall be at the property line, right-of-way line, property line sewer cleanout, or such point in this general area as identified by the superintendent. The city/town owned tap or service line connection cannot extend onto private property except that minimal distance to the edge of rights-of-way, easements, or that distance necessary to cross other city/town utility lines and provide a location unencumbered by other underground city/town utilities where the user can make a connection to the building sewer without risk of damage to those other city/town utilities. 
(5)	Sewer extensions. All expansion or extension of the public sewer constructed by property owners or developers must follow policies and procedures developed by the city/town. In the absence of policies and procedures the expansion or extension of the public sewer must be approved in writing by the superintendent or manager of the wastewater collection system. All plans and construction must follow the latest edition of Tennessee Design Criteria for Sewerage Works, located at http://www.state.tn.us/environment/wpc/publications/. Contractors must provide the superintendent or manager with as-built drawing and documentation that all mandrel, pressure and vacuum tests as specified in design criteria were acceptable prior to use of the lines. Contractor's one (1) year warranty period begins with occupancy or first permanent use of the lines. Contractors are responsible for all maintenance and repairs during the warranty period and final inspections as specified by the superintendent or manager. The superintendent or manager must give written approval to the contractor to acknowledge transfer of ownership to the city/town. Failure to construct or repair lines to acceptable standards could result in denial or discontinuation of sewer service.

18-307.Septic tank effluent pump or grinder pump wastewater systems. When connection of building sewers to the public sewer by gravity flow lines is impossible due to elevation differences or other encumbrances, Septic Tank Effluent Pump (STEP) or Grinder Pump (GP) systems may be installed subject to the regulations of the city/town.
(1)	Equipment requirements. (a) Septic tanks shall be of water tight construction and must be approved by the city/town.
(b)	Pumps must be approved by the city/town and shall be maintained by the city/town.
(2)	Installation requirements. Location of tanks, pumps, and effluent lines shall be subject to the approval of the city/town. Installation shall follow design criteria for STEP and GP systems as provided by the superintendent.
(3)	Costs. STEP and GP equipment for new construction shall be purchased and installed at the developer's, homeowner's, or business owner's expense according to the specification of the city/town and connection will be made to the city/town sewer only after inspection and approval of the city/town.
(4)	Ownership and easements. Homeowners or developers shall provide the city/town with ownership of the equipment and an easement for access to perform necessary maintenance or repair. Access by the city/town to the STEP and GP system must be guaranteed to operate, maintain, repair, restore service, and remove sludge. Access manholes, ports, and electrical disconnects must not be locked, obstructed or blocked by landscaping or construction.
(5)	Use of STEP and GP systems. (a) Home or business owners shall follow the STEP and GP users guide provided by the superintendent.
(b)	Home or business owners shall provide an electrical connection that meets specifications and shall provide electrical power.
(c)	Home or business owners shall be responsible for maintenance of drain lines from the building to the STEP and GP tank.
(d)	Prohibited uses of the STEP and GP system.
(i)	Connection of roof guttering, sump pumps or surface drains.
(ii)	Disposal of toxic household substances.
(iii)	Use of garbage grinders or disposers.
(iv)	Discharge of pet hair, lint, or home vacuum water.
(v)	Discharge of fats, grease, and oil.
(6)	Tank cleaning. Solids removal from the septic tank shall be the responsibility of the city/town. However, pumping required more frequently than once every five (5) years shall be billed to the homeowner.
(7)	Additional charges. The city/town shall be responsible for maintenance of the STEP and GP equipment. Repeat service calls for similar problems shall be billed to the homeowner or business at a rate of no more than the actual cost of the service call including but not limited to transportation, labor, materials, excavation, subcontractors, engineering fees, cleanup expenses, and other expenses related to the service call. In addition if the city/town receives regulatory fines related to equipment failure and sewage overflows all such fines will be passed on to the user. 

18-308.Regulation of holding tank waste disposal or trucked in waste. (1) No person, firm, association or corporation shall haul in or truck in to the WWF any type of domestic, commercial or industrial waste unless such person, firm, association, or corporation obtains a written approval from the city/town to perform such acts or services.
Any person, firm, association, or corporation desiring a permit to perform such services shall file an application on the prescribed form. Upon any such application, said permit shall be issued by the superintendent when the conditions of this chapter have been met and providing the superintendent is satisfied the applicant has adequate and proper equipment to perform the services contemplated in a safe and competent manner. 
(2)	Fees. For each permit issued under the provisions of this chapter the applicant shall agree in writing by the provisions of this section and pay an annual service charge to the city/town to be set as specified in § 18-307 of this title. Any such permit granted shall be for a specified period of time, and shall continue in full force and effect from the time issued until the expiration date, unless sooner revoked, and shall be nontransferable. The number of the permit granted hereunder shall be plainly painted in three-inch (3") permanent letters on each side of each motor vehicle used in the conduct of the business permitted hereunder.
(3)	Designated disposal locations. The superintendent shall designate approved locations for the emptying and cleansing of all equipment used in the performance of the services rendered under the permit herein provided for, and it shall be a violation hereof for any person, firm, association or corporation to empty or clean such equipment at any place other than a place so designated. The superintendent may refuse to accept any truckload of waste at his discretion where it appears that the waste could interfere with the operation of the WWF.
(4)	Revocation of permit. Failure to comply with all the provisions of the permit or this chapter shall be sufficient cause for the revocation of such permit by the superintendent. The possession within the service area by any person of any motor vehicle equipped with a body type and accessories of a nature and design capable of serving a septic tank of wastewater or excreta disposal system cleaning unit shall be prima facie evidence that such person is engaged in the business of cleaning, draining, or flushing septic tanks or other wastewater or excreta disposal systems within the service area of the City/Town of ___________.
(5)	Trucked in waste. This part includes waste from trucks, railcars, barges, etc., or temporally pumped waste, all of which are prohibited without a permit issued by the superintendent. This approval may require testing, flow monitoring and record keeping. 

18-309.Discharge regulations. (1) General discharge prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will pass through or interfere with the operation and performance of the WWF. These general prohibitions apply to all such users of a WWF whether or not the user is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. Violations of these general and specific prohibitions or the provisions of this section or other pretreatment standard may result in the issuance of an industrial pretreatment permit, surcharges, discontinuance of water and/or sewer service and other fines and provisions of §§ 18-310 and 18-405. A user may not contribute the following substances to any WWF:
(a)	Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the WWF or to the operation of the WWF. Prohibited flammable materials including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flash point of less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees Celsius (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromate, carbides, hydrides and sulfides and other flammable substances.
(b)	Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 or higher than 9.5 or wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and/or personnel of the WWF.
(c)	Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment facilities including, but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, waste from animal slaughter, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, mud, or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
(d)	Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which will cause interference to the WWF.
(e)	Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological activity in the WWF treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the WWF which exceeds forty degrees Celsius (40°C) (one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104° F)) unless approved by the State of Tennessee.
(f)	Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
(g)	Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or fumes within the WWF in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety problems.
(h)	Any wastewater containing any toxic pollutants, chemical elements, or compounds in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans, including wastewater plant and collection system operators, or animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the WWF, or to exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant identified pursuant to section 307(a) of the Act.
(i)	Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points designated by the WWF.
(j)	Any substance which may cause the WWF's effluent or any other product of the WWF such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case, shall a substance discharged to the WWF cause the WWF to be in non compliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, 40 CFR 503, guidelines, or regulations developed under section 405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being used.
(k)	Any substances which will cause the WWF to violate its NPDES permit or the receiving water quality standards.
(l)	Any wastewater causing discoloration of the wastewater treatment plant effluent to the extent that the receiving stream water quality requirements would be violated, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions.
(m)	Any waters or wastes causing an unusual volume of flow or concentration of waste constituting "slug" as defined herein.
(n)	Any waters containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such halflife or concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
(o)	Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public nuisance.
(p)	Any waters or wastes containing animal or vegetable fats, wax, grease, or oil, whether emulsified or not, which cause accumulations of solidified fat in pipes, lift stations and pumping equipment, or interfere at the treatment plant.
(q)	Detergents, surfactants, surface-acting agents or other substances which may cause excessive foaming at the WWF or pass through of foam.
(r)	Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the WWF to fail toxicity tests.
(s)	Any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent and the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the superintendent and the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(2)	Local limits. In addition to the general and specific prohibitions listed in this section, users permitted according to chapter 3 may be subject to numeric and best management practices as additional restrictions to their wastewater discharge in order to protect the WWF from interference or protect the receiving waters from pass through contamination. 
(3)	Restrictions on wastewater strength. No person or user shall discharge wastewater which exceeds the set of standards provided in Table A Plant Protection Criteria, unless specifically allowed by their discharge permit according to chapter 3 of this title. Dilution of any wastewater discharge for the purpose of satisfying these requirements shall be considered in violation of this chapter.
Table A Plant Protection Criteria
	Parameter	Maximum Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic		
Benzene		
Cadmium		
Carbon Tetrachloride		
Chloroform		
Chromium (total)		
Copper		
Cyanide		
Ethylbenzene		
Lead		
Mercury		
Methylene chloride		
Molybdenum		
Naphthalene		
Nickel		
Phenol		
Selenium		
Silver		
Tetrachloroethylene		
Toluene		
Total Phthalate		
Trichloroethylene		
1,1,1-Trichloroethane		
1,2 Transdichloroethylene		
Zinc		
(4)	Fats, oils and grease traps and interceptors. (a) Fat, Oil, and Grease (FOG), waste food, and sand interceptors. FOG, waste food and sand interceptors shall be installed when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing fats, oils, and grease, any flammable wastes, ground food waste, sand, soil, and solids, or other harmful ingredients in excessive amount which impact the wastewater collection system. Such interceptors shall not be required for single family residences, but may be required on multiple family residences. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(b)	Fat, oil, grease, and food waste. (i) New construction and renovation. Upon construction or renovation, all restaurants, cafeterias, hotels, motels, hospitals, nursing homes, schools, grocery stores, prisons, jails, churches, camps, caterers, manufacturing plants and any other sewer users who discharge applicable waste shall submit a FOG and food waste control plan that will effectively control the discharge of FOG and food waste.
(ii)	Existing structures. All existing restaurants, cafeterias, hotels, motels, hospitals, nursing homes, schools, grocery stores, prisons, jails, churches, camps, caterers, manufacturing plants and any other sewer users who discharge applicable waste shall be required to submit a plan for control of FOG and food waste, if and when the superintendent determines that FOG and food waste are causing excessive loading, plugging, damage or potential problems to structures or equipment in the public sewer system.
(iii)	Implementation of plan. After approval of the FOG plan by the superintendent the sewer user must:
(A)	Implement the plan within a reasonable amount of time;
(B)	Service and maintain the equipment in order to prevent impact upon the sewer collection system and treatment facility. If in the opinion of the superintendent the user continues to impact the collection system and treatment plant, additional pretreatment may be required, including a requirement to meet numeric limits and have surcharges applied.
(c)	Sand, soil, and oil interceptors. All car washes, truck washes, garages, service stations and other sources of sand, soil, and oil shall install effective sand, soil, and oil interceptors. These interceptors shall be sized to effectively remove sand, soil, and oil at the expected flow rates. The interceptors shall be cleaned on a regular basis to prevent impact upon the wastewater collection and treatment system. Owners whose interceptors are deemed to be ineffective by the superintendent may be asked to change the cleaning frequency or to increase the size of the interceptors. Owners or operators of washing facilities will prevent the inflow of rainwater into the sanitary sewers.
(d)	Laundries. Commercial laundries shall be equipped with an interceptor with a wire basket or similar device, removable for cleaning, that prevents passage into the sewer system of solids one-half inch (1/2") or larger in size such as strings, rags, buttons, or other solids detrimental to the system.
(e)	Control equipment. The equipment of facilities installed to control FOG, food waste, sand and soil, must be designed in accordance with the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation engineering standards or applicable city/town guidelines. Underground equipment shall be tightly sealed to prevent inflow of rainwater and easily accessible to allow regular maintenance. Control equipment shall be maintained by the owner or operator of the facility so as to prevent a stoppage of the public sewer, and the accumulation of FOG in the lines, pump stations and treatment plant. If the city/town is required to clean out the public sewer lines as a result of a stoppage resulting from poorly maintained control equipment, the property owner shall be required to refund the labor, equipment, materials and overhead costs to the city/town. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit or restrict any other remedy the city/town has under this chapter, or state or federal law. The city/town retains the right to inspect and approve installation of control equipment.
(f)	Solvents prohibited. The use of degreasing or line cleaning products containing petroleum based solvents is prohibited. The use of other products for the purpose of keeping FOG dissolved or suspended until it has traveled into the collection system of the city/town is prohibited. 
(g)	The superintendent may use industrial wastewater discharge permits under § 18-302 to regulate the discharge of fat, oil and grease.

18-310.Enforcement and abatement. Violators of these wastewater regulations may be cited to city/town court, general sessions court, chancery court, or other court of competent jurisdiction face fines, have sewer service terminated or the city/town may seek further remedies as needed to protect the collection system, treatment plant, receiving stream and public health including the issuance of discharge permits according to chapter 3. Repeated or continuous violation of this title is declared to be a public nuisance and may result in legal action against the property owner and/or occupant and the service line disconnected from sewer main. Upon notice by the superintendent that a violation has or is occurring, the user shall immediately take steps to stop or correct the violation. The city/town may take any or all the following remedies:
(1)	Cite the user to city/town or general sessions court, where each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(2)	In an emergency situation where the superintendent has determined that immediate action is needed to protect the public health, safety or welfare, a public water supply or the facilities of the sewerage system, the superintendent may discontinue water service or disconnect sewer service. 
(3)	File a lawsuit in chancery court or any other court of competent jurisdiction seeking damages against the user, including if applicable legal costs, and further seeking an injunction prohibiting further violations by user.
(4)	Seek further remedies as needed to protect the public health, safety or welfare, the public water supply or the facilities of the sewerage system.
CHAPTER 4

INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL WASTEWATER REGULATIONS

SECTION
18-401.Industrial pretreatment.
18-402.Discharge permits.
18-403.Industrial user additional requirements.
18-404.Reporting requirements.
18-405.Enforcement response plan.
18-406.Enforcement response guide table.
18-407.Fees and billing.
18-408.Validity.

18-401.Industrial pretreatment. In order to comply with Federal Industrial Pretreatment Rules 40 CFR 403 and Tennessee Pretreatment Rules found at Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs. 0400-40-14 and to fulfill the purpose and policy of this chapter the following regulations are adopted. 
(1)	User discharge restrictions. All system users must follow the general and specific discharge regulations specified in § 18-309.
(2) 	Users wishing to discharge pollutants at higher concentrations than Table A Plant Protection Criteria of § 18-309, or those dischargers who are classified as significant industrial users will be required to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users who discharge waste which falls under the criteria specified in this chapter and who fail to or refuse to follow the provisions shall face termination of service and/or enforcement action specified in § 18-405.
(3)	Discharge regulation. Discharges to the sewer system shall be regulated through use of a permitting system. The permitting system may include any or all of the following activities: completion of survey/application forms, issuance of permits, oversight of users monitoring and permit compliance, use of compliance schedules, inspections of industrial processes, wastewater processing, and chemical storage, public notice of permit system changes and public notice of users found in significant noncompliance. 
(4)	Discharge permits shall limit concentrations of discharge pollutants to those levels that are established as local limits, Table B or other applicable state and federal pretreatment rules which may be in effect or take effect after the passage of this chapter.




Table B - Local Limits
Pollutant	Monthly Average* Concentration (mg/l)	Maximum
Daily 
Concentration
(mg/l)
Arsenic		
Benzene		
Cadmium		
Carbon Tetrachloride		
Chloroform		
Chromium (total)		
Copper		
Cyanide		
Ethybenzene		
Lead		
Mercury		
Methylene chloride		
Molybdenum		
Naphthalene		
Nickel		
Phenol		
Selenium		
Silver		
Tetrachloroethylene		
Toluene		
Total Phthalate		
Trichloroethylene		
1,1,1-Trichoroethane		
1,2 Transdichloroethylene		
Zinc		
*Based on twenty-four (24) hour flow proportional composite samples unless specified otherwise.
(5)	Surcharge threshold and maximum concentrations. Dischargers of high strength waste may be subject to surcharges based on the following surcharge thresholds. Maximum concentrations may also be established for some users.
Table C-Surcharge and Maximum Limits
Parameter	Surcharge Threshold	Maximum Concentration
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN)		
Oil and grease		
MBAS		
BOD		
COD		
Suspended solids		
(6)	Protection of treatment plant influent. The pretreatment coordinator shall monitor the treatment works influent for each parameter in Table A Plant Protection Criteria. Industrial users shall be subject to reporting and monitoring requirements regarding these parameters as set forth in this chapter. In the event that the influent at the WWF reaches or exceeds the levels established by Table A or subsequent criteria calculated as a result of changes in pass through limits issued by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation, the pretreatment coordinator shall initiate technical studies to determine the cause of the influent violation and shall recommend to the city/town the necessary remedial measures, including, but not limited to, recommending the establishment of new or revised local limits, best management practices, or other criteria used to protect the WWF. The pretreatment coordinator shall also recommend changes to any of these criteria in the event that: the WWF effluent standards are changed, there are changes in any applicable law or regulation affecting same, or changes are needed for more effective operation of the WWF.
(7)	User inventory. The superintendent will maintain an up-to-date inventory of users whose waste does or may fall into the requirements of this chapter, and will notify the users of their status. 
(8)	Right to establish more restrictive criteria. No statement in this chapter is intended or may be construed to prohibit the pretreatment coordinator from establishing specific wastewater discharge criteria which are more restrictive when wastes are determined to be harmful or destructive to the facilities of the WWF or to create a public nuisance, or to cause the discharge of the WWF to violate effluent or stream quality standards, or to interfere with the use or handling of sludge, or to pass through the WWF resulting in a violation of the NPDES permit, or to exceed industrial pretreatment standards for discharge to municipal wastewater treatment systems as imposed or as may be imposed by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation and/or the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(9)	Combined wastestream formula. When wastewater subject to categorical pretreatment standards is mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the permitting authority may impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula. 

18-402.Discharge permits. (1) Application for discharge of commercial or industrial wastewater. All users or prospective users which generate commercial or industrial wastewater shall make application to the superintendent for connection to the municipal wastewater treatment system. It may be determined through the application that a user needs a discharge permit according to the provisions of federal and state laws and regulations. Applications shall be required from all new dischargers as well as for any existing discharger desiring additional service or where there is a planned change in the industrial or wastewater treatment process. Connection to the city/town sewer or changes in the industrial process or wastewater treatment process shall not be made until the application is received and approved by the superintendent, the building sewer is installed in accordance with § 18-406 of this title and an inspection has been performed by the superintendent or his representative.
The receipt by the city/town of a prospective customer's application for connection shall not obligate the city/town to render the connection. If the service applied for cannot be supplied in accordance with this chapter and the city's/town's rules and regulations and general practice, the connection charge will be refunded in full, and there shall be no liability of the city/town to the applicant for such service.
(2)	Industrial wastewater discharge permits. (a) General requirements. All industrial users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the WWF shall apply for service and apply for a discharge permit before connecting to or contributing to the WWF. All existing industrial users connected to or contributing to the WWF may be required to apply for a permit within one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of this chapter.
(b)	Applications. Applications for wastewater discharge permits shall be required as follows:
(i)	Users required by the superintendent to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall complete and file with the pretreatment coordinator, an application on a prescribed form accompanied by the appropriate fee. 
(ii)	The application shall be in the prescribed form of the city/town and shall include, but not be limited to the following information: name, address, and SIC/NAICS number of applicant; wastewater volume; wastewater constituents and characteristic, including but not limited to those mentioned in §§ 18-309 and 18-401 discharge variations daily, monthly, seasonal and thirty (30) minute peaks; a description of all chemicals handled on the premises, each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and rate of production, type and amount of raw materials, number and type of employees, hours of operation, site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details showing all sewers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation; a description of existing and proposed pretreatment and/or equalization facilities and any other information deemed necessary by the pretreatment coordinator.
(iii)	Any user who elects or is required to construct new or additional facilities for pretreatment shall as part of the application for wastewater discharge permit submit plans, specifications and other pertinent information relative to the proposed construction to the pretreatment coordinator for approval. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be issued until such plans and specifications are approved. Approval of such plans and specifications shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the city/town under the provisions of this chapter.
(iv)	If additional pretreatment and/or operations and maintenance will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the application shall include the shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. For the purpose of this paragraph, "pretreatment standard," shall include either a national pretreatment standard or a pretreatment standard imposed by this chapter.
(v)	The city/town will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the city/town may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
(vi)	The receipt by the city/town of a prospective customer's application for wastewater discharge permit shall not obligate the city/town to render the wastewater collection and treatment service. If the service applied for cannot be supplied in accordance with this chapter or the city's/town's rules and regulations and general practice, the application shall be rejected and there shall be no liability of the city/town to the applicant of such service.
(vii)	The pretreatment coordinator will act only on applications containing all the information required in this section. Persons who have filed incomplete applications will be notified by the pretreatment coordinator that the application is deficient and the nature of such deficiency and will be given thirty (30) days to correct the deficiency. If the deficiency is not corrected within thirty (30) days or within such extended period as allowed by the local administrative officer, the local administrative officer shall deny the application and notify the applicant in writing of such action.
(viii)	Applications shall be signed by the duly authorized representative.
(c)	Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees established by the city/town. 
(i)	Permits shall contain the following:
(A)	Statement of duration;
(B)	Provisions of transfer;
(C)	Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on applicable pretreatment standards in this chapter, state rules, categorical pretreatment standards, local, state, and federal laws;
(D)	Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
(E)	Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violations of pretreatment standards and the requirements of any applicable compliance schedule. Such schedules shall not extend the compliance date beyond the applicable federal deadlines;
(F)	Requirements to control slug discharges, if determined by the WWF to be necessary; and
(G)	Requirement to notify the WWF immediately if changes in the users' processes affect the potential for a slug discharge.
(ii)	Additionally, permits may contain the following:
(A)	The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
(B)	Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and sampling facilities;
(C)	Compliance schedules;
(D)	Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports;
(E)	Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the city/town, and affording city/town access thereto;
(F)	Requirements for notification of the city/town sixty (60) days prior to implementing any substantial change in the volume or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment system, and of any changes in industrial processes that would affect wastewater quality or quantity;
(G)	Prohibition of bypassing pretreatment or pretreatment equipment;
(H)	Effluent mass loading restrictions; and
(I)	Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city/town to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(d)	Permit modification. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the pretreatment coordinator during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of any proposed changes in this permit at least sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of change. Except in the case where federal deadlines are shorter, in which case the federal rule must be followed. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(e)	Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five (5) years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit renewal a minimum of one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit.
(f)	Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed operation without the prior written approval of the local administrative officer. Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit. The permit holder must provide the new owner with a copy of the current permit.
(g)	Revocation of permit. Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter is subject to be modified, suspended, or revoked in whole or in part during its term for cause including, but not limited to, the following:
(i)	Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge permit or other applicable federal, state, or local law or regulation.
(ii)	Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully all relevant facts.
(iii)	A change in:
(A)	Any condition that requires either a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the permitted discharge;
(B)	Strength, volume, or timing of discharges; or
(C)	Addition or change in process lines generating wastewater.
(iv)	Intentional failure of a user to accurately report the discharge constituents and characteristics or to report significant changes in plant operations or wastewater characteristics.
(3)	Confidential information. All information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspection shall be available to the public or any governmental agency without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the pretreatment coordinator that the release of such information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the users.
When requested by the person furnishing the report, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available to governmental agencies for use; related to this chapter or the city's/town's or user's NPDES permit. Provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information.
Information accepted by the pretreatment coordinator as confidential shall not be transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the pretreatment coordinator until and unless prior and adequate notification is given to the user.

18-403.Industrial user additional requirements. (1) Monitoring facilities. The installation of a monitoring facility shall be required for all industrial users. A monitoring facility shall be a manhole or other suitable facility approved by the pretreatment coordinator.
When in the judgment of the pretreatment coordinator, there is a significant difference in wastewater constituents and characteristics produced by different operations of a single user the pretreatment coordinator may require that separate monitoring facilities be installed for each separate source of discharge.
Monitoring facilities that are required to be installed shall be constructed and maintained at the user's expense. The purpose of the facility is to enable inspection, sampling and flow measurement of wastewater produced by a user. If sampling or metering equipment is also required by the pretreatment coordinator, it shall be provided and installed at the user's expense.
The monitoring facility will normally be required to be located on the user's premises outside of the building. The pretreatment coordinator may, however, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street right-of-way with the approval of the public agency having jurisdiction of that right-of-way and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expenses of the user.
(2)	Sample methods. All samples collected and analyzed pursuant to this regulation shall be conducted using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in the current edition of 40 CFR 136 and appropriate EPA guidance. Multiple grab samples collected during a twenty-four (24) hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows: For cyanide, total phenol, and sulfide the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the control authority, as appropriate.
(3)	Representative sampling and housekeeping. All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measuring facilities shall be properly operated, kept clean, and in good working order at all times. The failure of the user to keep its monitoring facilities in good working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge. 
(4)	Proper operation and maintenance. The user shall at all times properly operate and maintain the equipment and facilities associated with spill control, wastewater collection, treatment, sampling and discharge. Proper operation and maintenance includes adequate process control as well as adequate testing and monitoring quality assurance. 
(5)	Inspection and sampling. The city/town may inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the city/town or its representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purpose of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying or in the performance of any of its duties. The city/town, approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. The city/town will utilize qualified city/town personnel or a private laboratory to conduct compliance monitoring. Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city/town, approval authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific responsibility.
(6)	Safety. While performing the necessary work on private properties, the pretreatment coordinator or duly authorized employees of the city/town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city/town employees and the city/town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city/town employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the monitoring and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
(7)	New sources. New sources of discharges to the WWF shall have in full operation all pollution control equipment at start up of the industrial process and be in full compliance of effluent standards within ninety (90) days of start up of the industrial process.
(8)	Slug discharge evaluations. Evaluations will be conducted of each significant industrial user according to the state and federal regulations. Where it is determined that a slug discharge control plan is needed, the user shall prepare that plan according to the appropriate regulatory guidance.
(9)	Accidental discharges or slug discharges. 
(a)	Protection from accidental or slug discharge. All industrial users shall provide such facilities and institute such procedures as are reasonably necessary to prevent or minimize the potential for accidental or slug discharge into the WWF of waste regulated by this chapter from liquid or raw material storage areas, from truck and rail car loading and unloading areas, from in plant transfer or processing and materials handling areas, and from diked areas or holding ponds of any waste regulated by this chapter. Detailed plans showing the facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the pretreatment coordinator before the facility is constructed.
The review and approval of such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility to provide the protection necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
(b)	Notification of accidental discharge or slug discharge. Any person causing or suffering from any accidental discharge or slug discharge shall immediately notify the pretreatment coordinator in person, or by the telephone to enable countermeasures to be taken by the pretreatment coordinator to minimize damage to the WWF, the health and welfare of the public, and the environment.
This notification shall be followed, within five (5) days of the date of occurrence, by a detailed written statement describing the cause of the accidental discharge and the measures being taken to prevent future occurrence.
Such notification shall not relieve the user of liability for any expense, loss, or damage to the WWF, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or state or federal law.
(c)	Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency notification procedure. 

18-404.Reporting requirements. Users, whether permitted or non-permitted may be required to submit reports detailing the nature and characteristics of their discharges according to the following subsections. Failure to make a requested report in the specified time is a violation subject to enforcement actions under § 305. 
(1)	Baseline monitoring report. (a) Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category determination under Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs. 0400-40-14-.06(1)(d), whichever is later, existing categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the WWF shall submit to the superintendent a report which contains the information listed in subsection (b) below. At least ninety (90) days prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the superintendent a report which contains the information listed in subsection (b) below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
(b)	Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
(i)	Identifying information. The user name, address of the facility including the name of operators and owners.
(ii)	Permit information. A listing of any environmental control permits held by or for the facility. 
(iii)	Description of operations. A brief description of the nature, average rate of production (including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the WWF from the regulated processes.
(iv)	Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream formula.
(v)	Measurement of pollutants.
(A)	The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing sources.
(B)	The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
(C)	Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported. 
(D)	The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in 40 CFR 136 and amendments, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical standard. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the superintendent or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the standard.
(E)	The user shall take a minimum of one (1) representative sample to compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
(F)	Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards.
(G)	Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with 40 CFR 136 or other approved methods.
(H)	The superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures.
(I)	The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant discharges to the WWF.
(c)	Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's duly authorized representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional Operation and Maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
(d)	Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in § 18-404(2) of this section.
(e)	Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports must be certified in accordance with § 18-404(14) of this section and signed by the duly authorized representative.
(2)	Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by § 18-404(1)(d) of this section:
(a)	The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and conducting routine operation).
(b)	No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months.
(c)	The user shall submit a progress report to the superintendent no later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
(d)	In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such progress reports to the superintendent.
(3)	Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline. Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the WWF, any user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the superintendent a report containing the information described in §18-404(1)(b)(iv) and (v) of this section. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with subsection (14) of this section. All sampling will be done in conformance with subsection (11).
(4)	Periodic compliance reports. (a) All significant industrial users must, at a frequency determined by the superintendent submit no less than twice per year (April 10 and Oct. 10) reports indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a Best Management Practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation required by the superintendent or the pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
(b)	All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with this chapter.
(c)	All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
(d)	If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more frequently than required by the superintendent, using the procedures prescribed in subsection (11) of this section, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(5)	Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the superintendent of any significant changes to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least sixty (60) days before the change. 
(a)	The superintendent may require the user to submit such information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under § 18-401 of this chapter.
(b)	The superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit under § 18-402 of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under § 18-402 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(6)	Report of potential problems. (a) In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
(b)	Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall, unless waived by the superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result of damage to the WWF, natural resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter. 
(c)	A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a discharge described in subsection (a) above. Employers shall ensure that all employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(d)	Significant industrial users are required to notify the superintendent immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug discharge. 
(7)	Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the superintendent as the superintendent may require to determine users status as non-permitted. 
(8)	Notice of violations/repeat sampling and reporting. Where a violation has occurred, another sample shall be conducted within thirty (30) days of becoming aware of the violation, either a repeat sample or a regularly scheduled sample that falls within the required time frame. If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the superintendent within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the superintendent within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the city/town performs sampling at the user's facility at least once a month, or if the city/town performs sampling at the user's facility between the time when the initial sampling was conducted and the time when the user or the city/town receives the results of this sampling, or if the city/town has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the industrial user.
(9)	Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste. (a) Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months. All notifications must take place no later than one hundred and eighty (180) days after the discharge commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under § 18-404(5). The notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under the self monitoring requirements of § 18-404(1), (3), and (4) of this chapter.
(b)	Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a), above, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen (15) kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than fifteen (15) kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one (1) time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
(c)	In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA found at 42 U.S.C. § 6901 et seq. identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the superintendent, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety (90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
(d)	In the case of any notification made under this section, the user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically practical.
(e)	This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this title, a permit issued there under, or any applicable federal or state law.
(10)	Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR 136 and amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the superintendent or other parties approved by EPA.
(11)	Sample collection. Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
(a)	Except as indicated in subsections (b) and (c) below, the user must collect wastewater samples using twenty-four (24) hour flow proportional composite sampling techniques, unless time proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the superintendent. Where time proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the city/town, the samples must be representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in 40 CFR 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a twenty-four (24) hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city/town, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous limits 
(b)	Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection techniques.
(c)	For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and ninety (90) day compliance reports required in subsections (1) and (3) of this section, a minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the superintendent may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by subsection (4) of this section, the industrial user is required to collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(12)	Date of receipt of reports. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, the date of receipt of the report shall govern.
(13)	Recordkeeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this section shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this section any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and documentation associated with best management practices established under § 18-402. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the city/town, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the superintendent. 
(14)	Certification statements. Signature and certification. All reports associated with compliance with the pretreatment program shall be signed by the duly authorized representative and shall have the following certification statement attached:
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations."
Reports required to have signatures and certification statement include, permit applications, periodic reports, compliance schedules, baseline monitoring, reports of accidental or slug discharges, and any other written report that may be used to determine water quality and compliance with local, state, and federal requirements. 

18-405.Enforcement response plan. Under the authority of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-3-123, et seq.
(1)	Complaints; notification of violation; orders. 
(a)	(i)	Whenever the local administrative officer has reason to believe that a violation of any provision of the ___________ wastewater regulations, pretreatment program, or of orders of the local hearing authority issued under it has occurred, is occurring, or is about to occur, the local administrative officer may cause a written complaint to be served upon the alleged violator or violators.
(ii)	The complaint shall specify the provision or provisions of the pretreatment program or order alleged to be violated or about to be violated and the facts alleged to constitute a violation, may order that necessary corrective action be taken within a reasonable time to be prescribed in the order, and shall inform the violators of the opportunity for a hearing before the local hearing authority.
(iii)	Any such order shall become final and not subject to review unless the alleged violators request by written petition a hearing before the local hearing authority as provided in § 18-405(2), no later than thirty (30) days after the date the order is served; provided, that the local hearing authority may review the final order as provided in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-3-123(a)(3).
(iv)	Notification of violation. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (i) through (iii), whenever the pretreatment coordinator finds that any user has violated or is violating this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirements, the city/town or its agent may serve upon the user a written notice of violation. Within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of this notice, the user shall submit to the pretreatment coordinator an explanation of the violation and a plan for its satisfactory correction and prevention including specific actions. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section limits the authority of the city/town to take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(b)	(i) When the local administrative officer finds that a user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, wastewater discharge permits, any order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, he may issue one (1) of the following orders. These orders are not prerequisite to taking any other action against the user.
(A)	Compliance order. An order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the specified time, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders may also contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring, and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a federal pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order release the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
(B)	Cease and desist order. An order to the user directing it to cease all such violations and directing it to immediately comply with all requirements and take needed remedial or preventive action to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
(C)	Consent order. Assurances of voluntary compliance, or other documents establishing an agreement with the user responsible for noncompliance, including specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified in the order.
(D)	Emergency order. (1) Whenever the local administrative officer finds that an emergency exists imperatively requiring immediate action to protect the public health, safety, or welfare, the health of animals, fish or aquatic life, a public water supply, or the facilities of the WWF, the local administrative officer may, without prior notice, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring that any action be taken as the local administrative officer deems necessary to meet the emergency.
(2)	If the violator fails to respond or is unable to respond to the order, the local administrative officer may take any emergency action as the local administrative officer deems necessary, or contract with a qualified person or persons to carry out the emergency measures. The local administrative officer may assess the person or persons responsible for the emergency condition for actual costs incurred by the city/town in meeting the emergency.
(ii)	Appeals from orders of the local administrative officer.
(A)	Any user affected by any order of the local administrative officer in interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter may file with the local administrative officer a written request for reconsideration within thirty (30) days of the order, setting forth in detail the facts supporting the user's request for reconsideration.
(B)	If the ruling made by the local administrative officer is unsatisfactory to the person requesting reconsideration, he may, within thirty (30) days, file a written petition with the local hearing authority as provided in subsection (2). The local administrative officer's order shall remain in effect during the period of reconsideration.
(c)	Except as otherwise expressly provided, any notice, complaint, order, or other instrument issued by or under authority of this section may be served on any named person personally, by the local administrative officer or any person designated by the local administrative officer, or service may be made in accordance with Tennessee statutes authorizing service of process in civil action. Proof of service shall be filed in the office of the local administrative officer.
(2)	Hearings. (a) Any hearing or rehearing brought before the local hearing authority shall be conducted in accordance with the following, Under the authority of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-3-124:
(i)	Upon receipt of a written petition from the alleged violator pursuant to this subsection, the local administrative officer shall give the petitioner thirty (30) days' written notice of the time and place of the hearing, but in no case shall the hearing be held more than sixty (60) days from the receipt of the written petition, unless the local administrative officer and the petitioner agree to a postponement;
(ii)	The hearing may be conducted by the local hearing authority at a regular or special meeting. A quorum of the local hearing authority must be present at the regular or special meeting to conduct the hearing;
(iii)	A verbatim record of the proceedings of the hearings shall be taken and filed with the local hearing authority, together with the findings of fact and conclusions of law made under subsection (a)(vi). The recorded transcript shall be made available to the petitioner or any party to a hearing upon payment of a charge set by the local administrative officer to cover the costs of preparation;
(iv)	In connection with the hearing, the chair shall issue subpoenas in response to any reasonable request by any party to the hearing requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in the hearing. In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a notice of hearing or subpoena issued under this section, the chancery court of Robertson County has jurisdiction upon the application of the local hearing authority or the local administrative officer to issue an order requiring the person to appear and testify or produce evidence as the case may require, and any failure to obey an order of the court may be punished by such court as contempt;
(v)	Any member of the local hearing authority may administer oaths and examine witnesses;
(vi)	On the basis of the evidence produced at the hearing, the local hearing authority shall make findings of fact and conclusions of law and enter decisions and orders that, in its opinion, will best further the purposes of the pretreatment program. It shall provide written notice of its decisions and orders to the alleged violator. The order issued under this subsection shall be issued by the person or persons designated by the chair no later than thirty (30) days following the close of the hearing;
(vii)	The decision of the local hearing authority becomes final and binding on all parties unless appealed to the courts as provided in subsection (b); and
(viii)	Any person to whom an emergency order is directed under § 18-405(1)(b)(i)(D) shall comply immediately, but on petition to the local hearing authority will be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. In no case will the hearing be held later than three (3) days from the receipt of the petition by the local hearing authority.
(b)	An appeal may be taken from any final order or other final determination of the local hearing authority by any party who is or may be adversely affected, including the pretreatment agency. Appeal must be made to the chancery court under the common law writ of certiorari set out in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 27-8-101, et seq. within sixty (60) days from the date the order or determination is made.
(c)	Show cause hearing. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) or (b), the pretreatment coordinator may order any user that causes or contributes to violation(s) of this chapter, wastewater discharge permits, or orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirements, to appear before the local administrative officer and show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for the action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. The notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user. Whether or not the user appears as ordered, immediate enforcement action may be pursued following the hearing date. A show cause hearing shall not be prerequisite for taking any other action against the user. A show cause hearing may be requested by the discharger prior to revocation of a discharge permit or termination of service.
(3)	Violations, administrative civil penalty. Under the authority of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-3-125(a)(1).
(a)	(i)	Any person including, but not limited to, industrial
users, who does any of the following acts or omissions is subject to a civil penalty of up to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per day for each day during which the act or omission continues or occurs:
(A)	Unauthorized discharge, discharging without a permit;
(B)	Violates an effluent standard or limitation;
(C)	Violates the terms or conditions of a permit;
(D)	Fails to complete a filing requirement;
(E)	Fails to allow or perform an entry, inspection, monitoring or reporting requirement;
(F)	Fails to pay user or cost recovery charges; or
(G)	Violates a final determination or order of the local hearing authority or the local administrative officer.
(ii)	Any administrative civil penalty must be assessed in the following manner:
(A)	The local administrative officer may issue an assessment against any person or industrial user responsible for the violation;
(B)	Any person or industrial user against whom an assessment has been issued may secure a review of the assessment by filing with the local administrative officer a written petition setting forth the grounds and reasons for the violator's objections and asking for a hearing in the matter involved before the local hearing authority and, if a petition for review of the assessment is not filed within thirty (30) days after the date the assessment is served, the violator is deemed to have consented to the assessment and it becomes final;
(C)	Whenever any assessment has become final because of a person's failure to appeal the assessment, the local administrative officer may apply to the appropriate court for a judgment and seek execution of the judgment, and the court, in such proceedings, shall treat a failure to appeal the assessment as a confession of judgment in the amount of the assessment;
(D)	In assessing the civil penalty the local administrative officer may consider the following factors:
(1)	Whether the civil penalty imposed will be a substantial economic deterrent to the illegal activity;
(2)	Damages to the pretreatment agency, including compensation for the damage or destruction of the facilities of the publicly owned treatment works, and also including any penalties, costs and attorneys' fees incurred by the pretreatment agency as the result of the illegal activity, as well as the expenses involved in enforcing this section and the costs involved in rectifying any damages;
(3)	Cause of the discharge or violation;
(4)	The severity of the discharge and its effect upon the facilities of the publicly owned treatment works and upon the quality and quantity of the receiving waters;
(5)	Effectiveness of action taken by the violator to cease the violation;
(6)	The technical and economic reasonableness of reducing or eliminating the discharge; and
(7)	The economic benefit gained by the violator.
(E)	The local administrative officer may institute proceedings for assessment in the chancery court of the county in which all or part of the pollution or violation occurred, in the name of the pretreatment agency.
(iii)	The local hearing authority may establish by regulation a schedule of the amount of civil penalty which can be assessed by the local administrative officer for certain specific violations or categories of violations.
(iv)	Assessments may be added to the user's next scheduled sewer service charge and the local administrative officer shall have such other collection remedies as may be available for other service charges and fees.
(b)	Any civil penalty assessed to a violator pursuant to this section may be in addition to any civil penalty assessed by the commissioner for violations of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-3-115(a)(1)(F). However, the sum of penalties imposed by this section and by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-3-115(a) shall not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per day for each day during which the act or omission continues or occurs.
(4)	Assessment for noncompliance with program permits or orders. Under the authority of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-3-126.
(a)	The local administrative officer may assess the liability of any polluter or violator for damages to the city/town resulting from any person's or industrial user's pollution or violation, failure, or neglect in complying with any permits or orders issued pursuant to the provisions of the pretreatment program or this section.
(b)	If an appeal from such assessment is not made to the local hearing authority by the polluter or violator within thirty (30) days of notification of such assessment, the polluter or violator shall be deemed to have consented to the assessment, and it shall become final.
(c)	Damages may include any expenses incurred in investigating and enforcing the pretreatment program of this section, in removing, correcting, and terminating any pollution, and also compensation for any actual damages caused by the pollution or violation.
(d)	Whenever any assessment has become final because of a person's failure to appeal within the time provided, the local administrative officer may apply to the appropriate court for a judgment, and seek execution on the judgment. The court, in its proceedings, shall treat the failure to appeal the assessment as a confession of judgment in the amount of the assessment.
(5)	Judicial proceedings and relief. Under the authority of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-3-127. The local administrative officer may initiate proceedings in the chancery court of the county in which the activities occurred against any person or industrial user who is alleged to have violated or is about to violate the pretreatment program, this section, or orders of the local hearing authority or local administrative officer. In the action, the local administrative officer may seek, and the court may grant, injunctive relief and any other relief available in law or equity.
(6)	Termination of discharge. In addition to the revocation of permit provisions in § 18-402(2)(g) of this chapter, users are subject to termination of their wastewater discharge for violations of a wastewater discharge permits, or orders issued hereunder, or for any of the following conditions:
(a)	Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions.
(b)	Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of its discharge.
(c)	Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge.
(d)	Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of inspection, monitoring or sampling.
(e)	Violation of the pretreatment standards in the general discharge prohibitions in § 18-309.
(f)	Failure to properly submit an industrial waste survey when requested by the pretreatment coordination superintendent.
The user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause, as provided in subsection (2)(c) above, why the proposed action should not be taken.
(7)	Disposition of damage payments and penalties-special fund. All damages and/or penalties assessed and collected under the provisions of this section shall be placed in a special fund by the pretreatment agency and allocated and appropriated for the administration of its wastewater fund or combined water and wastewater fund.
(8)	Levels of non-compliance. (a) "Insignificant non-compliance." For the purpose of this guide, "insignificant non-compliance" is considered a relatively minor infrequent violation of pretreatment standards or requirements. These will usually be responded to informally with a phone call or site visit but may include a Notice of Violation (NOV).
(b)	"Significant noncompliance." Per Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs. 0400-40-14-.08(6)(b)8.
(i)	Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken for each parameter taken during a six (6) month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limit. 
(ii)	Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for BOD, TSS fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH). TRC calculations for pH are not required.
(iii)	Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement (daily maximum of longer-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the WWF determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public).
(iv)	Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the WWF's exercise of its emergency authority under § 18-405(1)(b)(i)(D), emergency order, to halt or prevent such a discharge.
(v)	Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance.
(vi)	Failure to provide, within forty-five (45) days after their due date, required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules. 
(vii)	Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
(viii)	Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a violation of best management practices, which the WWF determines will adversely affect the operation of implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(ix)	Continuously monitored pH violations that exceed limits for a time period greater than fifty (50) minutes or exceed limits by more than 0.5 s.u. more than eight (8) times in four (4) hours.
Any significant non-compliance violations will be responded to according to the Enforcement Response Plan Guide Table (Appendix A). 
(9)	Public notice of the significant violations. The superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by the WWF, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term significant noncompliance shall be applicable to all significant industrial users (or any other industrial user that violates subsections (C), (D) or (H) of this section) and shall mean:
(a)	Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits;
(b)	Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH), TRC calculations for pH are not required;
(c)	Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement (daily maximum of longer-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the WWF determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
(d)	Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the superintendent's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
(e)	Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
(f)	Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
(g)	Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best management practices, which the superintendent determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(h)	Continuously monitored pH violations that exceed limits for a time period greater than fifty (50) minutes or exceed limits by more than 0.5 s.u. more than eight (8) times in four (4) hours.
(10)	Criminal penalties. In addition to civil penalties imposed by the local administrative officer and the State of Tennessee, any person who willfully and negligently violates permit conditions is subject to criminal penalties imposed by the State of Tennessee and the United States.

18-406.Enforcement response guide table. (1) Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the consistent and equitable enforcement of the provisions of this title.
(2)	Enforcement response guide table. The applicable officer shall use the schedule found in Appendix A to impose sanctions or penalties for the violation of this section.

18-407.Fees and billing. (1) Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the equitable recovery of costs from users of the city's/town's wastewater treatment system including costs of operation, maintenance, administration, bond service costs, capital improvements, depreciation, and equitable cost recovery of EPA administered federal wastewater grants.
(2)	Types of charges and fees. The charges and fees as established in the city's/town's schedule of charges and fees may include, but are not limited to:
(a)	Inspection fee and tapping fee;
(b)	Fees for applications for discharge;
(c)	Sewer use charges;
(d)	Surcharge fees (see Table C);
(e)	Waste hauler permit;
(f)	Industrial wastewater discharge permit fees;
(g)	Fees for industrial discharge monitoring; and
(h)	Other fees as the city/town may deem necessary.
(3)	Fees for application for discharge. A fee may be charged when a user or prospective user makes application for discharge as required by § 18-402 of this chapter.
(4)	Inspection fee and tapping fee. An inspection fee and tapping fee for a building sewer installation shall be paid to the city's/town's sewer department at the time the application is filed.
(5)	Sewer user charges. The board of mayor and aldermen shall establish monthly rates and charges for the use of the wastewater system and for the services supplied by the wastewater system.
(6)	Industrial wastewater discharge permit fees. A fee may be charged for the issuance of an industrial wastewater discharge fee in accordance with § 18-407 of this chapter.
(7)	Fees for industrial discharge monitoring. Fees may be collected from industrial users having pretreatment or other discharge requirements to compensate the city/town for the necessary compliance monitoring and other administrative duties of the pretreatment program.
(8)	Administrative civil penalties. Administrative civil penalties shall be issued according to the following schedule. Violation are categorized in the Enforcement Response Guide Table (Appendix A). The local administrative officer may access a penalty within the appropriate range. Penalty assessments are to be assessed per violation per day unless otherwise noted.

Category 1		No penalty
Category 2		$50.00-$500.00
Category 3		$500.00-$1,000.00
Category 4		$1,000.00-$5,000.00
Category 5		$5,000.00-$10,000.00

18-408.Validity. This chapter and its provisions shall be valid for all service areas, regions, and sewage works under the jurisdiction of the city/town.
CHAPTER 5

 CROSS-CONNECTIONS, AUXILIARY INTAKES, ETC.4

SECTION
18-501.Definitions.
18-502.Standards.
18-503.Construction, operation, and supervision.
18-504.Statement required.
18-505.Inspections required.
18-506.Right of entry for inspections.
18-507.Correction of existing violations.
18-508.Use of protective devices.
18-509.Unpotable water to be labeled.
18-510.Violations and penalty.

18-501.Definitions. The following definitions and terms shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this chapter: 
(1)	"Auxiliary intake." Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be secured from a source other than that normally used.
(2)	"Bypass." Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the water may be diverted around any part or portion of a water purification plant.
(3)	"Cross-connection." Any physical arrangement whereby the public water supply is connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, whether sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device which contains, or may contain, contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or liquid of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to the public water supply as a result of backflow. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or change-over devices through which, or because of which, backflow could occur are considered to be cross-connections; 
(4)	"Interconnection." Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain sewage or other waste or liquid which would be capable of imparting contamination to the public water supply.
(5)	"Person." Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual, firm, or association, and any municipal or private corporation organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
(6)	"Public water supply." The waterworks system furnishing water to the city/town for general use and which supply is recognized as the public water supply by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation. 

18-502.Standards. The municipal public water supply is to comply with Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 68-221-701 to 68-221-719 as well as the Rules and Regulations for Public Water Supplies, legally adopted in accordance with this code, which pertain to cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses, and interconnections, and establish an effective ongoing program to control these undesirable water uses.

18-503.Construction, operation, and supervision. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross-connection to be made, or allow one to exist for any purpose whatsoever, unless the construction and operation of same have been approved by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation and the operation of such cross-connection, auxiliary intake, bypass or interconnection is at all times under the direct supervision of the _________________ or his representative.

18-504.Statement required. Any person whose premises are supplied with water from the public water supply and who also has on the same premises a separate source of water supply, or stores water in an uncovered or unsanitary storage reservoir from which the water stored therein is circulated through a piping system, shall file with the __________________ a statement of the non-existence of unapproved or unauthorized cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses, or interconnections. Such statement shall also contain an agreement that no cross-connection, auxiliary intake, bypass, or interconnection will be permitted upon the premises.

18-505.Inspections required. It shall be the duty of the ___________ to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections with the public water supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and reinspection, based on potential health hazards involved, shall be established by the ________________ and as approved by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation.

18-506.Right of entry for inspections. The                       or his authorized representative shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the public water supply for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems therein for cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses, or interconnections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.

	18-507.Correction of existing violations. Any person who now has cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses, or interconnections in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be allowed a reasonable time within which to comply with the provisions of this chapter. After a thorough investigation of existing conditions and an appraisal of the time required to complete the work, the amount of time shall be designated by the ________________.
The failure to correct conditions threatening the safety of the public water system as prohibited by this chapter and the Tennessee Code Annotated, § 68-221-711, within a reasonable time and within the time limits set by the _______________ shall be grounds for denial of water service. If proper protection has not been provided after a reasonable time, the ___________________ shall give the customer legal notification that water service is to be discontinued and shall physically separate the public water supply from the customer's on-site piping system in such a manner that the two systems cannot again be connected by an unauthorized person.
Where cross-connections, interconnections, auxiliary intakes, or bypasses are found that constitute an extreme hazard of immediate concern of contaminating the public water system, the management of the water supply shall require that immediate corrective action be taken to eliminate the threat to the public water system. Immediate steps shall be taken to disconnect the public water supply from the on-site piping system unless the imminent hazard(s) is (are) corrected immediately.

18-508.Use of protective devices. Where the nature of use of the water supplied a premises by the water department is such that it is deemed
(1)	Impractical to provide an effective air-gap separation,
(2)	That the owner and/or occupant of the premises cannot, or is not willing, to demonstrate to the                      , or his designated representative, that the water use and protective features of the plumbing are such as to propose no threat to the safety or potability of the water supply,
(3)	That the nature and mode of operation within a premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing,
(4)	There is a likelihood that protective measures may be subverted, altered, or disconnected, the                   or his designated representative, shall require the use of an approved protective device on the service line serving the premises to assure that any contamination that may originate in the customer's premises is contained therein. The protective device shall be a reduced pressure zone type backflow preventer approved by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation as to manufacture, model, and size. The method of installation of backflow protective devices shall be approved by the _______________ prior to installation and shall comply with the criteria set forth by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation. The installation shall be at the expense of the owner or occupant of the premises. 
Personnel of the municipal public water supply shall have the right to inspect and test the device or devices on an annual basis or whenever deemed necessary by the                     or his designated representative. Water service shall not be disrupted to test the device without the knowledge of the occupant of the premises.
Where the use of water is critical to the continuance of normal operations or protection of life, property, or equipment, duplicate units shall be provided to avoid the necessity of discontinuing water service to test or repair the protective device or devices. Where it is found that only one unit has been installed and the continuance of service is critical, the _______________ shall notify, in writing, the occupant of the premises of plans to discontinue water service and arrange for a mutually acceptable time to test and/or repair the device. The                 shall require the occupant of the premises to make all repairs indicated promptly, to keep the unit(s) working properly, and the expense of such repairs shall be borne by the owner or occupant of the premises. Repairs shall be made by qualified personnel acceptable to the ________________.
The failure to maintain backflow prevention devices in proper working order shall be grounds for discontinuing water service to a premises. Likewise, the removal, bypassing, or altering of the protective devices or the installation thereof so as to render the devices ineffective shall constitute grounds for discontinuance of water service. Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the customer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects to the satisfaction of the ____________________.

18-509.Unpotable water to be labeled. In order that the potable water supply made available to premises served by the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified herein, any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
WATER UNSAFE
FOR DRINKING
The minimum acceptable sign shall have black letters at least one-inch high located on a red background.

18-510.Violations and penalty. The requirements contained herein shall apply to all premises served by the city/town water system whether located inside or outside the corporate limits and are hereby made a part of the conditions required to be met for the city/town to provide water services to any premises. Such action, being essential for the protection of the water distribution system against the entrance of contamination which may render the water unsafe healthwise, or otherwise undesirable, shall be enforced rigidly without regard to location of the premises, whether inside or outside the corporate limits. 
Any person who neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a violation is allowed to occur shall be a separate offense.