TITLE 16

STREETS AND SIDEWALKS, ETC.1

CHAPTER
1.MISCELLANEOUS.
2.EXCAVATIONS.

CHAPTER 1

MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION
16-101.Obstructing streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited.
16-102.Trees projecting over streets, etc., regulated.
16-103.Trees, etc., obstructing view at intersections prohibited.
16-104.Projecting signs and awnings, etc., restricted.
16-105.Banners and signs across streets and alleys restricted.
16-106.Gates or doors opening over streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited.
16-107.Obstruction of drainage ditches.
16-108.Abutting occupants to keep sidewalks clean, etc.
16-109.Parades, etc., regulated.
16-110.Animals and vehicles on sidewalks.
16-111.Fires in streets, etc.
16-112.Violations and penalty.

16-101.Obstructing streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited. No person shall use or occupy any portion of any public street, alley, sidewalk, or right of way for the purpose of storing, selling, or exhibiting any goods, wares, merchandise, or materials.

16-102.Trees projecting over streets, etc., regulated. It shall be unlawful for any property owner or occupant to allow any limbs of trees on his property to project over any street or alley at a height of less than fourteen feet (14') or over any sidewalk at a height of less than eight feet (8').

16-103.Trees, etc., obstructing view at intersections prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any property owner or occupant to have or maintain on his property any tree, shrub, sign, or other obstruction which prevents persons driving vehicles on public streets or alleys from obtaining a clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection.

16-104.Projecting signs and awnings, etc., restricted. Signs, awnings, or other structures which project over any street or other public way shall be erected subject to the requirements of the building code.2

16-105.Banners and signs across streets and alleys restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or have placed any banner or sign across or above any public street or alley except when expressly authorized by the board of mayor and aldermen after a finding that no hazard will be created by such banner or sign.

16-106.Gates or doors opening over streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying property to allow any gate or door to swing open upon or over any street, alley, or sidewalk except when required by law.

16-107.Obstruction of drainage ditches. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause the obstruction of any drainage ditch in any public right-of-way or public easement.

16-108.Abutting occupants to keep sidewalks clean, etc. The occupants of property abutting on a sidewalk are required to keep the sidewalk clean. Also, immediately after a snow or sleet, such occupants are required to remove all accumulated snow and ice from the abutting sidewalk.

16-109.Parades, etc., regulated. It shall be unlawful for any person, club, organization, or other group to hold any meeting, parade, demonstration, or exhibition on the public streets without some responsible representative first securing a permit from the recorder.

16-110.Animals and vehicles on sidewalks. It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, lead, or tie any animal, or ride, push, pull, or place any vehicle across or upon any sidewalk in such manner as unreasonably interferes with or inconveniences pedestrians using the sidewalk. It shall also be unlawful for any person knowingly to allow any minor under his control to violate this section.

16-111.Fires in streets, etc. It shall be unlawful for any person to set or contribute to any fire in any public street, alley, or sidewalk.

16-112.Violations and penalty. Violations of this chapter shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code.
CHAPTER 2

EXCAVATIONS

SECTION
16-201.Permit required.
16-202.Applications.
16-203.Fee.
16-204.Deposit or bond.
16-205.Safety restrictions on excavations.
16-206.Restoration of streets, etc.
16-207.Insurance.
16-208.Time limits.
16-209.Supervision.
16-210.Violations and penalty.

16-201.Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or others, including utility districts to make any excavation in any street, alley, or public place, or to tunnel under any street, alley, or public place without having first obtained a permit as herein required, and without complying with the provisions of this chapter; and it shall also be unlawful to violate, or vary from, the terms of any such permit; provided, however, any person maintaining pipes, lines, or other underground facilities in or under the surface of any street may proceed with an opening without a permit when emergency circumstances demand the work to be done immediately and a permit cannot reasonably and practicably be obtained beforehand. The person shall thereafter apply for a permit on the first regular business day on which the office of the recorder is open for business, and the permit shall be retroactive to the date when the work was begun.

16-202.Applications. Applications for such permits shall be made to the recorder, or such person as he may designate to receive such applications, and shall state thereon the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof, the purpose thereof, the person, firm, corporation, association, or others doing the actual excavating, the name of the person, firm, corporation, association, or others for whom the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done. Such application shall be rejected or approved by the recorder within twenty-four (24) hours of its filing.

16-203.Fee. The fee for such permits shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).

16-204.Deposit or bond. No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has deposited with the recorder a cash deposit. The deposit shall be in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) if no pavement is involved or one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) if the excavation is in a paved area and shall ensure the proper restoration of the ground and, laying of the pavement, if any. Where the amount of the deposit is clearly inadequate to cover the cost of restoration, the recorder may, after consultation with public works or an engineer, increase the amount of the deposit to an amount considered to be adequate to cover the cost. From this deposit shall be deducted the expense to the city/town of relaying the surface of the ground or pavement, and of making the refill if this is done by the city/town or at its expense. The balance shall be returned to the applicant without interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely refilled and the surface or pavement is restored.
In lieu of a deposit the applicant may deposit with the recorder a surety bond in such form and amount as the recorder shall deem adequate to cover the costs to the city/town if the applicant fails to make proper restoration.

16-205.Safety restrictions on excavations. Any person, firm, corporation, association, or others making any excavation or tunnel shall do so according to the terms and conditions of the application and permit authorizing the work to be done. Sufficient and proper barricades and lights shall be maintained to protect persons and property from injury by or because of the excavation being made. If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be constructed and provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for users.

16-206.Restoration of streets, etc. Any person, firm, corporation, association, or others making any excavation or tunnel in or under any street, alley, or public place in this city/town shall restore the street, alley, or public place to its original condition except for the surfacing, which shall be done by the city/town but shall be paid for promptly upon completion by such person, firm, corporation, association, or others for which the excavation or tunnel was made. In case of unreasonable delay in restoring the street, alley, or public place, the recorder shall give notice to the person, firm, corporation, association, or others that unless the excavation or tunnel is refilled properly within a specified reasonable period of time, the city/town will do the work and charge the expense of doing the same to such person, firm, corporation, association, or others. If within the specified time the conditions of the above notice have not been complied with, the work shall be done by the city/town, an accurate account of the expense involved shall be kept, and the total cost shall be charged to the person, firm, corporation, association, or others who made the excavation or tunnel.

16-207.Insurance. In addition to making the deposit or giving the bond hereinbefore required to ensure that proper restoration is made, each person applying for an excavation permit shall file a certificate of insurance indicating that he is insured against claims for damages for personal injury as well as against claims for property damage which may arise from or out of the performance of the work, whether such performance be by himself, his subcontractor, or anyone directly or indirectly employed by him. Such insurance shall cover collapse, explosive hazards, and underground work by equipment on the street, and shall include protection against liability arising from completed operations. The amount of the insurance shall be prescribed by the recorder in accordance with the nature of the risk involved; provided, however, that the liability insurance for bodily injury shall not be less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for each person, and not less than seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000.00) for each accident, and for property damages not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for each accident.

16-208.Time limits. Each application for a permit shall state the length of time it is estimated will elapse from the commencement of the work until the restoration of the surface of the ground or pavement, or until the refill is made ready for the pavement to be put on by the city/town if the city/town restores such surface pavement. It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation unless permission for an extension of time is granted by the recorder.

16-209.Supervision. The person designated by the board of mayor and aldermen shall from time to time inspect all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley, or other public place in the city/town and see to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Notice shall be given to him at least ten (10) hours before the work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences.

16-210.Violations and penalty. Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a civil offense and shall be punishable by a civil penalty under the general penalty provision of this code, by revocation of permit, or by both penalty and revocation. Each day a violation shall be allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.