TITLE 14

ZONING AND LAND USE CONTROL

CHAPTER 
1.MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
2.ZONING ORDINANCE.
3.FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
4.MOBILE HOME PARKS.

[WHEN AND IF A ZONING ORDINANCE IS ADOPTED, IT MAY BE PUBLISHED AS A SEPARATE DOCUMENT, TO WHICH CHAPTER 2 WOULD MAKE REFERENCE, OR INCLUDED IN THE CODE IN ITS ENTIRETY]

CHAPTER 1

MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION 

SECTION
14-101.Creation and membership.
14-102.Organization, powers, duties, etc.
14-103.Additional powers.

14-101.Creation and membership. Pursuant to the provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 13-4-101 there is hereby created a municipal planning commission, hereinafter referred to as the planning commission. The planning commission shall consist of five (5) members; two (2) of these shall be the mayor or a person designated by the mayor, and another member of the board of mayor and aldermen selected by the board of mayor and aldermen; the other three (3) members shall be appointed by the mayor. At least one (1) member of the planning commission, designated as a regional planning commission in § 14-103, shall reside within the regional area outside of the municipal boundaries served by the regional planning commission. [If the planning commission is not designated as a regional planning commission, the previous sentence should be deleted. For regional planning commissions with more than five (5) members, two (2) shall reside outside the city/town in the regional planning commission area.] All members of the planning commission shall serve as such without compensation. [Or, "Planning commission members shall receive _______ per month for serving on the commission."] Except for the initial appointments, the terms of the three (3) members appointed by the mayor shall be for three (3) years each. The three (3) members first appointed shall be appointed for terms of one (1), two (2), and three (3) years respectively so that the term of one (1) member expires each year. The terms of the mayor and the member selected by the board of mayor and aldermen shall run concurrently with their terms of office. Any vacancy in an appointive membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor, who shall also have the authority to remove any appointive member at his will and pleasure.

14-102.Organization, powers, duties, etc. The planning commission shall be organized and shall carry out its powers, functions, and duties in accordance with all applicable provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, title 13.

14-103.Additional powers.1 Having been designated as a regional planning commission, the municipal planning commission shall have the additional powers granted by, and shall otherwise be governed by the provisions of the state law relating to regional planning commissions.
CHAPTER 2

ZONING ORDINANCE

SECTION 
14-201.Land use to be governed by zoning ordinance.
14-202.Violations and penalty.

14-201.Land use to be governed by zoning ordinance. Land use within the City/Town of               shall be governed by the "Zoning Ordinance of                   , Tennessee," and any amendments thereto.2

14-202.Violations and penalty. Violations of the zoning ordinance shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.


CHAPTER 3

FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE

SECTION 
14-301.Statutory authorization, findings of fact, and objectives.
14-302.Definitions.
14-303.General provisions.
14-304.Administration.
14-305.Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
14-306.Variance procedures.
14-307.Legal status provisions.

14-301.Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and objectives. (1) Statutory authorization. The charter of the City/Town of ____________ in § __________ allows for the adoption of  regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City/Town of ___________, Tennessee, mayor and its legislative body do ordain as follows:
(2)	Findings of fact:
(a)	The City/Town of ____________, Tennessee, mayor and its legislative body wishes to (maintain/establish) eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and in order to do so must meet the NFIP regulations found in title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), ch. 1, § 60.3.
(b)	Areas of the City/Town of ___________, Tennessee are subject to periodic inundation which could result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
(c)	Flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains, causing increases in flood heights and velocities; by uses in flood hazard areas which are vulnerable to floods; or construction which is inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(3)	Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas. This chapter is designed to:
(a)	Restrict or prohibit uses which are vulnerable to flooding or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in erosion, flood heights, or velocities;
(b)	Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including community facilities, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
(c)	Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of floodwaters; 
(d)	Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion;
(e)	Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands.
(4)	Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
(a)	To protect human life, health, safety and property;
(b)	To minimize expenditure of public funds for costly flood control projects;
(c)	To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
(d)	To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
(e)	To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodprone areas;
(f)	To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of floodprone areas to minimize blight in flood areas;
(g)	To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a floodprone area;
(h)	To establish/maintain eligibility for participation in the NFIP.

14-302.Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be interpreted as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application given its stated purpose and objectives.
(1)	"Accessory structure" means a subordinate structure to the principal structure on the same lot and, for the purpose of this chapter, shall conform to the following:
(a)	Accessory structures shall only be used for parking of vehicles and storage.
(b)	Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage potential.
(c)	Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
(d)	Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, which otherwise may result in damage to other structures.
(e)	Utilities and service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be elevated or otherwise protected from intrusion of floodwaters.
(2)	"Addition (to an existing building)" means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter or height of a building.
(3)	"Appeal" means a request for a review of the local enforcement officer’s interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
(4)	"Area of shallow flooding" means a designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (1'-3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and where velocity flow may be evident. Such  flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
(5)	"Area of special flood-related erosion hazard" is the land within a community which is most likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The area may be designated as Zone E on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After the detailed evaluation of the special flood-related erosion hazard area in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further refined.
(6)	"Area of special flood hazard" see "Special flood hazard area." 
(7)	"Base flood" means the flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. This term is also referred to as the 100-year flood or the one percent (1%) annual chance flood.
(8)	"Basement" means any portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
(9)	"Building" see "Structure."
(10)	"Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials. 
(11)	"Elevated building" means a non-basement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above the ground level by means of solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwater, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building 
during a base flood event. 
(12)	"Emergency flood insurance program" or "Emergency program" means the program as implemented on an emergency basis in accordance with § 1336 of the Act. It is intended as a program to provide a first layer amount of insurance on all insurable structures before the effective date of the initial FIRM.
(13)	"Erosion" means the process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This peril is not "per se" covered under the program.
(14)	"Exception" means a waiver from the provisions of this chapter which relieves the applicant from the requirements of a rule, regulation, order or other determination made or issued pursuant to this chapter.
(15)	"Existing construction" means any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the initial floodplain management code or ordinance adopted by the community as a basis for that community's participation in the NFIP.
(16)	"Existing manufactured home park or subdivision" means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the first floodplain management code or ordinance adopted by the community as a basis for that community’s participation in the NFIP.
(17)	"Existing structures" see "Existing construction."
(18)	"Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision" means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
(19)	"Flood" or "Flooding" means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(a)	The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
(b)	The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
(20)	"Flood elevation determination" means a determination by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
(21)	"Flood elevation study" means an examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or flood-related erosion hazards.
(22)	"Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM)" means an official map of a community, issued by FEMA, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been designated as Zone A.
(23)	"Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)" means an official map of a community, issued by FEMA, delineating the areas of special flood hazard or the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
(24)	"Flood insurance study" is the official report provided by FEMA, evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevation of the base flood.
(25)	"Floodplain" or "Floodprone area" means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
(26)	"Floodplain management" means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management regulations.
(27)	"Flood protection system" means those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
(28)	"Floodproofing "means any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities and structures and their contents.
(29)	"Flood-related erosion" means the collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding.
(30)	"Flood-related erosion area" or "Flood-related erosion prone area" means a land area adjoining the shore of a lake or other body of water, which due to the composition of the shoreline or bank and high water levels or wind-driven currents, is likely to suffer flood-related erosion damage.
(31)	"Flood-related erosion area management" means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood-related erosion damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood-related erosion control works and floodplain management regulations.
(32)	"Floodway" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
(33)	"Freeboard" means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, and the 
hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
(34)	"Functionally dependent use" means a use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.
(35)	"Highest adjacent grade" means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
(36)	"Historic structure" means any structure that is:
(a)	Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
(b)	Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
(c)	Individually listed on the Tennessee inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
(d)	Individually listed on the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
(i)	By the approved Tennessee program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or
(ii)	Directly by the Secretary of the Interior.
(37)	"Levee" means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
(38)	"Levee system" means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
(39)	"Lowest floor" means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including a basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
(40)	"Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle."
(41)	"Manufactured home park or subdivision" means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
(42)	"Map" means the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for a community issued by FEMA.
(43)	"Mean sea level" means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For the purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.
(44)	"National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD)" means, as corrected in 1929, a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
(45)	"New construction" means any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management chapter and includes any subsequent improvements to such structure.
(46)	"New manufactured home park or subdivision" means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of the ordinance creating this chapter or the effective date of the initial floodplain management ordinance and includes any subsequent improvements to such structure.
(47)	"North American Vertical Datum (NAVD)" means, as corrected in 1988, a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
(48)	"100-year flood" see "Base flood."
(49)	"Person" includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local governments and agencies.
(50)	"Reasonably safe from flooding" means base flood waters will not inundate the land or damage structures to be removed from the Special Flood Hazard Area and that any subsurface waters related to the base flood will not damage existing or proposed structures.
(51)	"Recreational vehicle" means a vehicle which is:
(a)	Built on a single chassis;
(b)	Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(c)	Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
(d)	Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
(52)	"Regulatory floodway" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
(53)	"Riverine" means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
(54)	"Special flood hazard area" is the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE or A99.
(55)	"Special hazard area" means an area having special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, or AH.
(56)	"Start of construction" includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; and includes the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds, not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
(57)	"State coordinating agency" means the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development, as designated by the Governor of the State of Tennessee at the request of FEMA to assist in the implementation of the NFIP for the state.
(58)	"Structure," for purposes of this chapter, means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
(59)	"Substantial damage" means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
(60)	"Substantial improvement" means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, alteration or other improvement of a structure in which the cost equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the initial improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage," regardless of the actual repair work performed. The market value of the structure should be:
(a)	The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial improvement, or 
(b)	In the case of substantial damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring.
The term does not, however, include either: 
(c)	Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been pre-identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions and not solely triggered by an improvement or repair project or; 
(d)	Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure."
(61)	"Substantially improved existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions" is where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
(62)	"Variance" is a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
(63)	"Violation" means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
(64)	"Water surface elevation" means the height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, where specified, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.

14-303.General provisions. (1) Application. This chapter shall apply to all areas within the incorporated area of the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee.
(2)	Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of special flood hazard identified on the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee, as identified by FEMA, and in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), Community Panel Number(s) __________________, dated ____________, along with all supporting technical data, are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(3)	Requirement for development permit. A development permit shall be required in conformity with this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(4)	Compliance. No land, structure or use shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this Ordinance and other applicable regulations.
(5)	Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter conflicts or overlaps with another regulatory instrument, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(6)	Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this Ordinance, all provisions shall be: 
(a)	Considered as minimum requirements; 
(b)	Liberally construed in favor of the governing body and; 
(c)	Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under Tennessee statutes.
(7)	Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(8)	Penalties for violation. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as other misdemeanors as provided by law. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon adjudication therefore, be fined as prescribed by Tennessee statutes, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee from taking such other lawful actions to prevent or remedy any violation.

14-304.Administration. (1) Designation of ordinance administrator. The (Building Official/Name Position of Other Official) is hereby appointed as the administrator to implement the provisions of this chapter.
(2)	Permit procedures. Application for a development permit shall be made to the administrator on forms furnished by the community prior to any development activities. The development permit may include, but is not limited to the following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale and showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment, and drainage facilities. Specifically, the following information is required:
(a)	Application stage:
(i)	Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest floor, including basement, of all buildings where base flood elevations are available, or to certain height above the highest adjacent grade when applicable under this chapter.
(ii)	Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-residential building will be floodproofed where base flood elevations are available, or to certain height above the highest adjacent grade when applicable under this chapter.
(iii)	A FEMA Floodproofing Certificate from a Tennessee registered professional engineer or architect that the proposed non-residential floodproofed building will meet the floodproofing criteria in § 14-305(1) and (2).
(iv)	Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(b)	Construction stage: Within AE Zones, where base flood elevation data is available, any lowest floor certification made relative to mean sea level shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of, a Tennessee registered land surveyor and certified by same. The administrator shall record the elevation of the lowest floor on the development permit. When floodproofing is utilized for a non-residential building, said certification shall be prepared by, or under the direct supervision of, a Tennessee registered professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
Within approximate A Zones, where base flood elevation data is not available, the elevation of the lowest floor shall be determined as the measurement of the lowest floor of the building relative to the highest adjacent grade. The administrator shall record the elevation of the lowest floor on the development permit. When floodproofing is utilized for a non-residential building, said certification shall be prepared by, or under the direct supervision of, a Tennessee registered professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
For all new construction and substantial improvements, the permit holder shall provide to the administrator an as-built certification of the lowest floor elevation or floodproofing level upon the completion of the lowest floor or floodproofing. 
Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The administrator shall review the above-referenced certification data. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
(3)	Duties and responsibilities of the administrator. Duties of the administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a)	Review all development permits to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied, and that proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
(b)	Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1344.
(c)	Notify adjacent communities and the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development, Local Planning Assistance Office, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.
(d)	For any altered or relocated watercourse, submit engineering data/analysis within six (6) months to FEMA to ensure accuracy of community FIRMs through the letter of map revision process.
(e)	Assure that the flood carrying capacity within an altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
(f)	Record the elevation, in relation to mean sea level or the highest adjacent grade, where applicable, of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new and substantially improved buildings, in accordance with § 14-304(2).
(g)	Record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level or the highest adjacent grade, where applicable to which the new and substantially improved buildings have been floodproofed, in accordance with § 14-304(2).
(h)	When floodproofing is utilized for a nonresidential structure, obtain certification of design criteria from a Tennessee registered professional engineer or architect, in accordance with § 14-304(2).
(i)	Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. Any person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter.
(j)	When base flood elevation data and floodway data have not been provided by FEMA, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other sources, including data developed as a result of these regulations, as criteria for requiring that new construction, substantial improvements, or other development in Zone A on the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee FIRM meet the requirements of this chapter.
(k)	Maintain all records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter in the office of the administrator and shall be open for public inspection. Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be maintained in a separate file or marked for expedited retrieval within combined files.

14-305.Provisions for flood hazard reduction. (1) General standards. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
(a)	New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure;
(b)	Manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. They must be elevated and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable State of Tennessee and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
(c)	New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
(d)	New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
(e)	All electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
(f)	New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
(g)	New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
(h)	On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
(i)	Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter;
(j)	Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building that is not in compliance with the provision of this chapter, shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not further extended or replaced;
(k)	All new construction and substantial improvement proposals shall provide copies of all necessary federal and state permits, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1344;
(l)	All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development proposals shall meet the standards of § 14-305(2);
(m)	When proposed new construction and substantial improvements are partially located in an area of special flood hazard, the entire structure shall meet the standards for new construction;
(n)	When proposed new construction and substantial improvements are located in multiple flood hazard risk zones or in a flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the entire structure shall meet the standards for the most hazardous flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood elevation.
(2)	Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions, in addition to those set forth in § 14-305(1), are required:
(a)	Residential structures. In AE Zones where base flood elevation data is available, new construction and substantial improvement of any residential building (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to no lower than one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate equalization of flood hydrostatic forces on both sides of exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with the standards of this section: "Enclosures."
Within approximate A Zones where base flood elevations have not been established and where alternative data is not available, the administrator shall require the lowest floor of a building to be elevated to a level of at least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade (as defined in § 14-302). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate equalization of flood hydrostatic forces on both sides of exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with the standards of this section: "Enclosures."
(b)	Non-residential structures. In AE Zones, where base flood elevation data is available, new construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential building, shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated or floodproofed to no lower than one foot (1') above the level of the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate equalization of flood hydrostatic forces on both sides of exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with the standards of this section: "Enclosures."
In approximate A Zones, where base flood elevations have not been established and where alternative data is not available, new construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential building, shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated or floodproofed to no lower than three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade (as defined in § 14-302). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate equalization of flood hydrostatic forces on both sides of exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with the standards of this section: "Enclosures."
Non-Residential buildings located in all A Zones may be floodproofed, in lieu of being elevated, provided that all areas of the building below the required elevation are watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and are built with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. A Tennessee registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions above, and shall provide such certification to the administrator as set forth in § 14-304(2).
(c)	Enclosures. All new construction and substantial improvements that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding, shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
(i)	Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a Tennessee professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
(A)	Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
(B)	The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above the finished grade;
(C)	Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in both directions.
(ii)	The enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles, storage or building access.
(iii)	The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms in such a way as to impede the movement of floodwaters and all such partitions shall comply with the provisions of § 14-305(2).
(d)	Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles:
(i)	All manufactured homes placed, or substantially improved, on: 
(A)	Individual lots or parcels, 
(B)	In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions, or 
(C)	In new or substantially improved manufactured home parks or subdivisions, must meet all the requirements of new construction.
(ii)	All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that either:
(A)	In AE Zones, with base flood elevations, the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated on a permanent foundation to no lower than one foot (1') above the level of the base flood elevation or
(B)	In approximate A Zones, without base flood elevations, the manufactured home chassis is elevated and supported by reinforced piers (or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength) that are at least three feet (3') in height above the highest adjacent grade (as defined in § 14-302).
(iii)	Any manufactured home, which has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood, must meet the standards of § 14-305(1) and (2).
(iv)	All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
(v)	All recreational vehicles placed in an identified special flood hazard area must either:
(A)	Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days;
(B)	Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed, on its wheels or jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached structures or additions), or;
(C)	The recreational vehicle must meet all the requirements for new construction.
(e)	Standards for subdivisions and other proposed new development proposals. Subdivisions and other proposed new developments, including manufactured home parks, shall be reviewed to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding.
(i)	All subdivision and other proposed new development proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
(ii)	All subdivision and other proposed new development proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
(iii)	All subdivision and other proposed new development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(iv)	In all approximate A Zones require that all new subdivision proposals and other proposed developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions) greater than fifty (50) lots or (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, include within such proposals base flood elevation data (see § 14-305(5)).
(3)	Standards for special flood hazard areas with established base flood elevations and with floodways designated. Located within the special flood hazard areas established in § 14-303(2), are areas designated as floodways. A floodway may be an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, debris or erosion potential. In addition, the area must remain free of encroachment in order to allow for the discharge of the base flood without increased flood heights and velocities. Therefore, the following provisions shall apply:
(a)	Encroachments are prohibited, including earthen fill material, new construction, substantial improvements or other development within the regulatory floodway. Development may be permitted however, provided it is demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practices that the cumulative effect of the proposed encroachments or new development shall not result in any increase in the water surface elevation of the base flood elevation, velocities, or floodway widths during the occurrence of a base flood discharge at any point within the community. A Tennessee registered professional engineer must provide supporting technical data, using the same methodologies as in the effective Flood Insurance Study for the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee and certification, thereof.
(b)	New construction and substantial improvements of buildings, where permitted, shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of § 14-305(1) and (2).
(4)	Standards for areas of special flood hazard Zones AE with established base flood elevations but without floodways designated. Located within the special flood hazard areas established in § 14-303(2), where streams exist with base flood data provided but where no floodways have been designated (Zones AE), the following provisions apply:
(a)	No encroachments, including fill material, new construction and substantial improvements shall be located within areas of special flood hazard, unless certification by a Tennessee registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. The engineering certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
(b)	New construction and substantial improvements of buildings, where permitted, shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of § 14-305(1) and (2).
(5)	Standards for streams without established base flood elevations and floodways (A Zones). Located within the special flood hazard areas established in § 14-303(2), streams exist, but no base flood data has been provided and where a floodway has not been delineated, the following provisions shall apply:
(a)	The administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from any federal, state, or other sources, including data developed as a result of these regulations (see (b) below), as criteria for requiring that new construction, substantial improvements, or other development in approximate A Zones meet the requirements of § 14-305(1) and (2).
(b)	Require that all new subdivision proposals and other proposed developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions) greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, include within such proposals base flood elevation data.
(c)	Within approximate A Zones, where base flood elevations have not been established and where such data is not available from other sources, require the lowest floor of a building to be elevated or floodproofed to a level of at least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade (as defined in § 14-302). All applicable data including elevations or floodproofing certifications shall be recorded as set forth in § 14-304(2). Openings sufficient to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with the standards of § 14-305(1).
(d)	Within approximate A Zones, where base flood elevations have not been established and where such data is not available from other sources, no encroachments, including structures or fill material, shall be located within an area equal to the width of the stream or twenty feet (20'), whichever is greater, measured from the top of the stream bank, unless certification by a Tennessee registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee. The engineering certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
(e)	New construction and substantial improvements of buildings, where permitted, shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of § 14-305(1) and (2). Within approximate A Zones, require that those subsections of § 14-305(2) dealing with the alteration or relocation of a watercourse, assuring watercourse carrying capacities are maintained and manufactured homes provisions are complied with as required.
(6)	Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO and AH Zones). Located within the special flood hazard areas established in § 14-303(2), are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet (1'-3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions, in addition to those set forth in § 14-305(1) and (2), apply:
(a)	All new construction and substantial improvements of residential and non residential buildings shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to at least one foot (1') above as many feet as the depth number specified on the FIRMs, in feet, above the highest adjacent grade. If no flood depth number is specified on the FIRM, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated to at least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade. Openings sufficient to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of § 14-305(2).
(b)	All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential buildings may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation. The structure together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities must be floodproofed and designed watertight to be completely floodproofed to at least one foot (1') above the flood depth number specified on the FIRM, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. If no depth number is specified on the FIRM, the structure shall be floodproofed to at least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade. A Tennessee registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this chapter and shall provide such certification to the administrator as set forth above and as required in accordance with § 14-304(2).
(c)	Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(7)	Standards for areas protected by flood protection system (A-99 Zones). Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in § 14-303(2) of the 100-year floodplain protected by a flood protection system but where base flood elevations have not been determined. Within these areas (A-99 Zones) all provisions of §§ 14-304 and 14-305 shall apply.
(8)	Standards for unmapped streams. Located within the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee, are unmapped streams where areas of special flood hazard are neither indicated nor identified. Adjacent to such streams, the following provisions shall apply:
(a)	No encroachments including fill material or other development including structures shall be located within an area of at least equal to twice the width of the stream, measured from the top of each stream bank, unless certification by a Tennessee registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the locality.
(b)	When a new flood hazard risk zone, and base flood elevation and floodway data is available, new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the standards established in accordance with §§  14-304 and 14-305.

14-306.Variance procedures. (1) Board of floodplain review.
(a)	Creation and appointment. A board of floodplain review is hereby established which shall consist of three (3) members appointed by the chief executive officer. The term of membership shall be four (4) years except that the initial individual appointments to the board of floodplain review shall be terms of one, two, and three years, respectively. Vacancies shall be filled for any unexpired term by the chief executive officer.
(b)	Procedure. Meetings of the board of floodplain review shall be held at such times, as the board shall determine. All meetings of the board of floodplain review shall be open to the public. The board of floodplain review shall adopt rules of procedure and shall keep records of applications and actions thereof, which shall be a public record. Compensation of the members of the board of floodplain review shall be set by the legislative body.
(c)	Appeals: how taken. An appeal to the board of floodplain review may be taken by any person, firm or corporation aggrieved or by any governmental officer, department, or bureau affected by any decision of the administrator based in whole or in part upon the provisions of this ordinance. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the board of floodplain review a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. In all cases where an appeal is made by a property owner or other interested party, a fee of (amount) dollars for the cost of publishing a notice of such hearings shall be paid by the appellant. The administrator shall transmit to the board of floodplain review all papers constituting the record upon which the appeal action was taken. The board of floodplain review shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to parties in interest and decide the same within a reasonable time which shall not be more than (number of) days from the date of the hearing. At the hearing, any person or party may appear and be heard in person or by agent or by attorney.
(d)	Powers. The board of floodplain review shall have the following powers:
(i)	Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the applicant that there is error in any order, requirement, permit, decision, determination, or refusal made by the administrator or other administrative official in carrying out or enforcement of any provisions of this chapter.
(ii)	Variance procedures. In the case of a request for a variance the following shall apply:
(A)	The City/Town of ____________, Tennessee Board of Floodplain Review shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
(B)	Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures as defined, herein, upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary deviation from the requirements of this chapter to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
(iii)	In passing upon such applications, the board of floodplain review shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
(A)	The danger that materials may be swept onto other property to the injury of others;
(B)	The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion;
(C)	The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage;
(D)	The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community;
(E)	The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, in the case of a functionally dependent use;
(F)	The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
(G) The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain management program for that area;
(H)	The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
(I)	The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;
(J)	The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, and streets and bridges.
(iv)	Upon consideration of the factors listed above, and the purposes of this chapter, the board of floodplain review may attach such conditions to the granting of variances, as it deems necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter.
(v)	Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(2)	Conditions for variances. (a) Variances shall be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum relief necessary, considering the flood hazard and the factors listed in § 14-306(1).
(b)	Variances shall only be issued upon: a showing of good and sufficient cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship; or a determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
(c)	Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance (as high as twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00)) coverage, and that such construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property.
(d)	The administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and report any variances to FEMA upon request.

14-307.Legal status provisions. Conflict with other ordinances. In case of conflict between this chapter or any part thereof, and the whole or part of any existing or future ordinance of the City/Town of ____________, Tennessee, the most restrictive shall in all cases apply.
CHAPTER 4

MOBILE HOME PARKS

SECTION
14-401.Definitions.
14-402.Location of mobile homes.
14-403.Compliance with construction standards required.
14-404.Installation requirements.
14-405.Permit for mobile home park.
14-406.Inspections by city/town building inspector.
14-407.Location and planning.
14-408.Minimum size of mobile home park.
14-409.Minimum number of spaces.
14-410.Minimum mobile home space and spacing of mobile homes.
14-411.Water supply.
14-412.Sewage disposal.
14-413.Refuse.
14-414.Electricity.
14-415.Streets.
14-416.Parking spaces.
14-417.Buffer strip.
14-418.License for mobile home parks.
14-419.License for individual mobile homes.
14-420.License fees for mobile home parks.
14-421.License fees for individual mobile homes.
14-422.Application for license.
14-423.Enforcement.
14-424.Board of appeals.
14-425.Appeals from board of appeals.
14-426.Violations and penalty.

14-401.Definitions. (1) "Health officer." The director of the city/town, county or district health department having jurisdiction over the community health in a specific area, or his duly authorized representative.
(2)	"Mobile home." A detached single family dwelling unit with any or all of the following characteristics:
(a)	Designed for long-term occupancy, and containing sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities, with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems.
(b)	Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or on a flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels.
(c)	Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete dwelling including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, connection to utilities and the like.
(3)	"Mobile home park (trailer court)." The term mobile home park shall mean any plot of ground on which two (2) or more mobile homes, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located.
(4)	"Mobile home space." The term shall mean a plot of ground within a mobile home park designated for the accommodation of one (1) mobile home.
(5)	"Permit (license)." The permit required for trailer parks and single mobile homes. Fees charged under the license requirement are for inspection and the administration of this chapter.

14-402.Location of mobile homes. It shall be unlawful for any mobile home to be used, stored, or placed on any lot or serviced by the utilities of the city/town where the mobile home is outside of any designated and licensed mobile home park after December 31, 2007. The use of a single wide mobile home other than as a residential dwelling in a licensed and approved mobile home park is prohibited.

14-403.Compliance with construction standards required. No mobile home shall be used, placed, stored or serviced by utilities within any mobile home park in the city/town unless it displays the appropriate decal(s) evidencing compliance with the applicable construction standards pursuant to the "Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes," Tennessee Code Annotated, title 68, chapter 126, is built to the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code) and displays a red certification label on the exterior of each transportable section.

14-404.Installation requirements. Mobile home installations shall comply with the "Tennessee Manufactured Home Installation Act," Tennessee Code Annotated, § 68-126-401, et seq.

14-405Permit for mobile home park. No place or site within the city/town shall be established or maintained by any person, group of persons, or corporation as a mobile home park unless he holds a valid permit issued by the city/town building inspector in the names of such person or persons for the specific mobile home park. The city/town building inspector is authorized to issue, suspend, or revoke permits in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

14-406.Inspections by city/town building inspector. The city/town building inspector is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition of mobile home parks, in order that he may perform his duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of mobile home parks and of the general public. The city/town building inspector shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter.

14-407.Location and planning. A mobile home park shall be located on a well-drained site and shall be so located that its drainage will not endanger any water supply and shall be in conformity with a plan approved by the city/town planning commission and city/town building inspector. The city/town planning commission and building inspector may promulgate regulations for mobile home park location and plan approval, which shall provide for adequate space, lighting, drainage, sanitary facilities, safety features, and service buildings as may be necessary to protect the public health, prevent nuisances, and provide for the convenience and welfare of the mobile home park occupants.

14-408.Minimum size of mobile home park. The tract of land for the mobile home park shall comprise an area of not less than two (2) acres. The tract of land shall consist of a single plat so dimensioned and related as to facilitate efficient design and management.

14-409.Minimum number of spaces. Minimum number of spaces completed and ready for occupancy before first occupancy is ten (10).

14-410.Minimum mobile homes space and spacing of mobile homes. Each mobile home space shall be adequate for the type of facility occupying the same. Mobile homes shall be parked on each space so that there will be at least fifteen feet (15') of open space between mobile homes or any attachment such as a garage or porch, and at least ten feet (10') end to end spacing between trailers and any building or structure, twenty feet (20') between any trailer and property line and twenty-five feet (25') from the right-of-way of any public street or highway. 
If the construction of additional rooms or covered areas is to be allowed beside the mobile homes, the mobile homes spaces shall be made wider to accommodate such construction in order to maintain the required fifteen feet (15') of open space. 
The individual plot sizes for mobile home spaces shall be determined as follows:
(1)	Minimum lot area of two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet;
(2)	Minimum depth with end parking of an automobile shall be equal to the length of the mobile home plus thirty feet (30');
(3)	Minimum depth with side or street parking shall be equal to the length of mobile home plus fifteen feet (15'); and
(4)	In no case shall the minimum width be less than forty feet (40') and the minimum depth less than sixty feet (60').

14-411.Water supply. Where a public water supply is available, it shall be used exclusively. The development of an independent water supply to serve the mobile home park shall be made only after express approval has been granted by the county health officer. In those instances where an independent system is approved, the water shall be from a supply properly located, protected, and operated, and shall be adequate in quantity and approved in quality. Samples of water for bacteriological examination shall be taken before the initial approval of the physical structure and thereafter at least every four (4) months and when any repair or alteration of the water supply system has been made. If a positive sample is obtained, it will be the responsibility of the trailer court operator to provide such treatment as is deemed necessary to maintain a safe, potable water supply. Water shall be furnished at the minimum rate of one hundred twenty-five (125) gallons per day per mobile home space. An additional water service connection shall be provided for each mobile home space, with meter for each individual trailer.

14-412.Sewage disposal. An adequate sewage disposal system must be provided and must be approved in writing by the health officer. Every effort shall be made to dispose of the sewage through a public sewerage system. In lieu of this, a septic tank and sub-surface soil absorption system may be used provided the soil characteristics are suitable and an adequate disposal area is available. The minimum size of any septic tank to be installed under any condition shall not be less than seven hundred fifty (750) gallons working capacity. This size tank can accommodate a maximum of two (2) mobile homes. For each additional mobile home a such single tank, a minimum additional liquid capacity of one hundred seventy-five (175) gallons shall be provided. The sewage from no more than twelve (12) mobile homes shall be disposed of in any one (1) single tank installation. The size of such tank shall be a minimum of two thousand five hundred (2,500) gallons liquid capacity.
The amount of effective soil absorption area or total bottom area of overflow trenches will depend on local soil conditions and shall be determined only on the basis of the percolation rate of the soil. The percolation rate must be determined according to the "Percolation Test Procedures" in the Official Compilation of the Rules and Regulations of the State of Tennessee, which may be found at Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs. 0400-48-01-.05. No mobile home shall be placed over a soil absorption field.
In lieu of a public sewerage or septic tank system, an officially approved package treatment plant may be used.
All sewer lines shall be laid in trenches separated at least ten feet (10') horizontally from any drinking water supply line.

14-413.Refuse. The storage, collection and disposal of refuse, in the park shall be so managed as to create no health hazards. All refuse shall be stored in fly proof, water tight and rodent proof containers. Satisfactory container racks or holders shall be provided. Garbage shall be collected and disposed of in an approved manner at least once per week.

14-414.Electricity. An electrical outlet supplying at least two hundred twenty (220) volts shall be provided for each mobile home space and shall be weather proof and accessible to the parked mobile home. All electrical installations shall be in compliance with the electrical code, and shall satisfy all requirements of the local electric service organization.

14-415.Streets. Widths of various streets within mobile home parks shall be:
One-way, with no on-street parking		11 ft.
One-way, with parallel parking on one side only		18 ft.
One-way, with parallel parking on both sides		26 ft.
Two-way, with no on-street parking		20 ft.
Two-way, with parallel parking on one side only		28 ft.
Two-way, with parallel parking on both sides		36 ft.
Streets shall have a compacted gravel base and a prime seal treatment to meet requirement of the Tennessee State Highway Department.

14-416. Parking spaces. Car parking spaces shall be provided in sufficient number to meet the needs of the occupants of the property and their guests without interference with normal movement of traffic. Such facilities shall be provided at the rate of at least one (1) car space for each mobile home lot plus an additional car space for each four (4) lots to provide for guest parking, for two (2) car tenants and for delivery and service vehicles. Car parking spaces shall be located for convenient access to the mobile home space. Where practical, one (1) car space shall be located on each lot and the remainder located in adjacent parking bays. The size of the individual parking space shall have a minimum width of not less than ten feet (10') and a length of not less than twenty feet (20'). The parking spaces shall be located so access can be gained only from internal streets of the mobile home park.

14-417.Buffer strip. An evergreen buffer strip shall be planted along those boundaries of the mobile home court that are adjacent to development.

14-418.License for mobile home parks. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to maintain or operate within the corporate limits of the city/town, a mobile home park unless such person or persons shall first obtain a license therefor.

14-419.License for individual mobile homes. It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain an individual mobile home as a dwelling unless a license has been obtained therefor. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the mobile home to secure the license.

14-420.License fees for mobile home parks. The annual license fee for mobile home parks shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00).

14-421.License fees for individual mobile homes. The annual license fee for each mobile home shall be ten dollars ($10.00). The fee for transfer of the license because of change of ownership or occupancy shall be five dollars ($5.00).

14-422.Application for license. (1) Mobile home parks. Application for a mobile home park shall be filed with and issued by the city/town building inspector subject to the planning commission's approval of the mobile home park plan. Application shall be in writing and signed by the applicant and shall be accompanied with a plan of the proposed mobile home park. The plan shall contain the following information and conform to the following requirements:
(a)	The plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale not smaller than one hundred feet to one inch (100' to 1");
(b)	Name and address of owner of record;
(c)	Proposed name of park;
(d)	North point and graphic scale and date;
(e)	Vicinity map showing location and acreage of mobile home park;
(f)	Exact boundary lines of the tract by bearing and distance;
(g)	Names of owners of record of adjoining land;
(h)	Existing streets, utilities, easements, and water courses on and adjacent to the tract;
(i)	Proposed design including streets, proposed street names, lot lines with approximate dimensions, easements, land to be reserved or dedicated for public uses, and any land to be used for purposes other than mobile home spaces;
(j)	Provisions for water supply, sewerage and drainage;
(k)	Such information as may be required by the city/town to enable it to determine if the proposed park will comply with legal requirements; and 
(l)	The applications and all accompanying plans and specifications shall be filed in triplicate.
(2)	Individual mobile homes. Application for individual mobile home licenses shall be filed with and issued by the city/town building inspector. Applications shall be in writing and signed by the applicant. The application shall contain the following:
(a)	The name of the applicant and all people who are to reside in the mobile home;
(b)	The location and description of the mobile home, make, model, and year;
(c)	The state license number;
(d)	Further information as may be required by the city/town to enable it to determine if the mobile home and site will comply with legal requirements; and
(e)	The application shall be filed in triplicate.

14-423.Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the county health officer and city/town building inspector to enforce provisions of this chapter.

14-424.Board of appeals. The planning commission shall serve as the board of appeals and shall be guided by procedures and powers compatible with state law.
Any party aggrieved because of an alleged error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building inspector in the enforcement of this chapter, may appeal for and receive a hearing by the planning commission for an interpretation of pertinent chapter provisions. In exercising this power of interpretation of this chapter, the planning commission may, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building inspector.

14-425.Appeals from board of appeals. Any person or persons or any board, taxpayer, department, or bureau of the city/town aggrieved by any decision of the planning commission may seek review by a court of record of such decision in the manner provided by the laws of the State of Tennessee.

14-426.Violations and penalty. Any person or corporation who violates the provisions of the chapter or the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, or fails to perform the reasonable requirements specified by the city/town building inspector or county health officer after receipt of thirty (30) days' written notice of such requirements, shall be subject to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.