TITLE 11

MUNICIPAL OFFENSES1

CHAPTER
1.ALCOHOL.
2.OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE AND QUIET.
3.TRESPASSING AND INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC.

CHAPTER 1

ALCOHOL2

SECTION
11-101.Drinking alcoholic beverages in public, etc.
11-102.Minors in beer places.
11-103.Violations and penalty.

11-101.Drinking alcoholic beverages in public, etc. It shall be unlawful for any person to drink, consume or have an open can or bottle of beer or intoxicating liquor in or on any public street, alley, avenue, highway, sidewalk, public park, public school ground or other public place.

11-102.Minors in beer places. No person under the age of twenty-one (21) shall loiter in or around or otherwise frequent any place where beer is sold at retail for on premises consumption.

11-103.Violations and penalty. A violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code.
CHAPTER 2

OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE AND QUIET

SECTION
11-201.Anti-noise regulations.
11-202.Violations and penalty.

11-201.Anti-noise regulations. Subject to the provisions of this section, the creating of any unreasonably loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noise is prohibited. Noise of such character, intensity, or duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual, or in disturbance of the public peace and welfare, is prohibited.
(1)	Miscellaneous prohibited noises enumerated. The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
(a)	Radios, phonographs, etc. The playing of any radio, phonograph, or any musical instrument or sound device, including but not limited to loudspeakers or other devices for reproduction or amplification of sound, either independently of or in connection with motion pictures, radio, or television, in such a manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of person in any office or hospital, or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any person in the vicinity.
(b)	Yelling, shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, whistling, or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M., or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person in any hospital, dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any person in the ­vicinity.
(c)	Pets. The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl which by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the ­vicinity.
(d)	Use of vehicle. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, truck, or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in such manner as to cause loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
(e)	Exhaust discharge. To discharge into the open air the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or boat engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(f)	Building operations. The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or repair of any building in any residential area or section or the construction or repair of streets and highways in any residential area or section, other than between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. on week days, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the building inspector granted for a period while the emergency continues not to exceed thirty (30) days. If the building inspector should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration, or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M., and if he shall further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest through delay, he may grant permission for such work to be done between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M. upon ­application being made at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the process of the work.
(g)	Noises near schools, hospitals, churches, etc. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any hospital or adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, or court while the same is in session.
(h)	Loading and unloading operations. The creation of any loud and excessive noise in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and other containers.
(i)	Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument or device emitting noise for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, or sale or display of merchandise.
(2)	Exceptions. None of the terms or prohibitions hereof shall apply to or be enforced against:
(a)	City/Town vehicles. Any vehicle of the city/town while engaged upon necessary public business.
(b)	Repair of streets, etc. Excavations or repairs of bridges, streets, or highways at night, by or on behalf of the city/town, the county, or the state, when the public welfare and convenience renders it impracticable to perform such work during the day.
(c)	Amplifiers and loudspeakers may be used; however, no such use shall be made until a permit therefor is secured from the board of mayor and aldermen. Hours for the use of an amplified or public address system will be designated in the permit so issued and the use of such systems shall be restricted to the hours so designated in the permit.

11-202.Violations and penalty. A violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code.
CHAPTER 3

TRESPASSING AND INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC

SECTION
11-301.Trespassing.
11-302.Interference with traffic.
11-303.Violations and penalty.

11-301.Trespassing. (1) On premises open to the public.
(a)	It shall be unlawful for any person to defy a lawful order, personally communicated to him by the owner or other authorized person, not to enter or remain upon the premises of another, including premises which are at the time open to the public.
(b)	The owner of the premises, or his authorized agent, may lawfully order another not to enter or remain upon the premises if such person is committing, or commits, any act which interferes with, or tends to interfere with, the normal, orderly, peaceful or efficient conduct of the activities of such premises. 
(2)	On premises closed or partially closed to public. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly enter or remain upon the premises of another which is not open to the public, notwithstanding that another part of the premises is at the time open to the public.
(3)	Vacant buildings. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain upon the premises of a vacated building after notice against trespass is personally communicated to him by the owner or other authorized person or is posted in a conspicuous manner.
(4)	Lots and buildings in general. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain on or in any lot or parcel of land or any building or other structure after notice against trespass is personally communicated to him by the owner or other authorized person or is posted in a conspicuous manner.
(5)	Peddlers, etc. It shall also be unlawful and deemed to be a trespass for any peddler, canvasser, solicitor, transient merchant, or other person to fail to promptly leave the private premises of any person who requests or directs him to leave.3

11-302.Interference with traffic. It shall be unlawful for any person to stand, sit, or engage in any activity whatever on any public street, sidewalk, bridge, or public ground in such a manner as to prevent, obstruct, or interfere with the free passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic thereon.

11-303.Violations and penalty. A violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code.