TITLE 13

PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS1

CHAPTER 
1.MISCELLANEOUS.
2.SLUM CLEARANCE.
3.JUNKYARDS.
4.JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.

CHAPTER 1

MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION
13-101.Smoke, soot, cinders, etc.
13-102.Stagnant water.
13-103.Weeds and grass.
13-104.Overgrown and dirty lots.
13-105.Dead animals.
13-106.Health and sanitation nuisances.
13-107.Violations and penalty.

13-101.Smoke, soot, cinders, etc. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause the escape of such quantities of dense smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, dust, or gases as to be detrimental to or to endanger the health, comfort, and safety of the public or so as to cause or have a tendency to cause injury or damage to property or business.

13-102.Stagnant water. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to allow any pool of stagnant water to accumulate and stand on his property without treating it so as effectively to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.

13-103.Weeds and grass. Every owner or tenant of property shall periodically cut the grass and other vegetation commonly recognized as weeds on his property, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with an order by the recorder to cut such vegetation when it has reached a height of over one foot (1').

13-104.Overgrown and dirty lots. (1) Prohibition. Pursuant to the authority granted to municipalities under Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-113, it shall be unlawful for any owner of record of real property to create, maintain, or permit to be maintained on such property the growth of trees, vines, grass, underbrush and/or the accumulations of debris, trash, litter, or garbage or any combination of the preceding elements so as to endanger the health, safety, or welfare of other citizens or to encourage the infestation of rats and other harmful animals. 
(2)	Designation of public officer or department. The board of mayor and aldermen shall designate an appropriate department or person to enforce the provisions of this section.
(3)	Notice to property owner. It shall be the duty of the department or person designated by the board of mayor and aldermen to enforce this section to serve notice upon the owner of record in violation of subsection (1) above, a notice in plain language to remedy the condition within ten (10) days (or twenty (20) days if the owner of record is a carrier engaged in the transportation of property or is a utility transmitting communications, electricity, gas, liquids, steam, sewage, or other materials), excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. The notice shall be sent by registered or certified United States Mail, addressed to the last known address of the owner of record. If no valid last known address exists for the owner of record, the city/town may publish the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the county for two (2) consecutive issues, or personally deliver notice to owner. The notice shall state that the owner of the property is entitled to a hearing, and shall, at the minimum, contain the following additional information:
(a)	A brief statement that the owner is in violation of § 13-104 of the ___________________ Municipal Code, which has been enacted under the authority of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-113, and that the property of such owner may be cleaned up at the expense of the owner and a lien placed against the property to secure the cost of the clean-up;
(b)	The person, office, address, and telephone number of the department or person giving the notice;
(c)	A cost estimate for remedying the noted condition, which shall be in conformity with the standards of cost in the city/town; and
(d)	A place wherein the notified party may return a copy of the notice, indicating the desire for a hearing.
(4)	Clean-up at property owner's expense. If the property owner of record fails or refuses to remedy the condition within ten (10) days after receiving the notice (twenty (20) days if the owner is a carrier engaged in the transportation of property or is a utility transmitting communications, electricity, gas, liquids, steam, sewage, or other materials), the department or person designated by the board of mayor and aldermen to enforce the provisions of this section shall immediately cause the condition to be remedied or removed at a cost in conformity with reasonable standards, and the costs thereof shall be assessed against the owner of the property. 
(a)	The city/town may collect the costs assessed against the owner through an action for debt filed in any court of competent jurisdiction. The city/town may bring one (1) action for debt against more than one (1) or all of the owners of properties against whom such costs have been assessed, and the fact that multiple owners have been joined in one (1) action shall not be considered by the court as a misjoinder of parties. Upon the filing of the notice with the office of the register of deeds in                   County, the costs shall be a lien on the property in favor of the municipality, second only to liens of the state, county, and municipality for taxes, any lien of the municipality for special assessments, and any valid lien, right, or interest in such property duly recorded or duly perfected by filing, prior to the filing of such notice. These costs shall be placed on the tax rolls of the municipality as a lien and shall be added to property tax bills to be collected at the same time and in the same manner as property taxes are collected. If the owner fails to pay the costs, they may be collected at the same time and in the same manner as delinquent property taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same penalty and interest as delinquent property taxes, or
(b)	The city/town may bill the owner the costs to remedy or remove the condition, in the same manner as municipal real property taxes and add the amount on the real property tax notice sent to the owner. If this remedy is used by the city/town, the amount billed to the property owner shall not constitute a lien on any affected property or accrue penalties or interest for late payment. If the city/town adds such costs to the real property tax notices the city/town shall bear all expenses related to system modifications necessary to add the costs to the notices.
(5)	Clean-up of owner-occupied property. When the owner of an owner-occupied residential property fails or refuses to remedy the condition within ten (10) days after receiving the notice, the department or person designated by the board of mayor and aldermen to enforce the provisions of this section shall immediately cause the condition to be remedied or removed at a cost in accordance with reasonable standards in the community, with these costs to be assessed against the owner of the property. The provisions of subsection (4) shall apply to the collection of costs against the owner of an owner-occupied residential property except that the municipality must wait until cumulative charges for remediation equal or exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) before filing the notice with the register of deeds and the charges becoming a lien on the property. After this threshold has been met and the lien attaches, charges for costs for which the lien attached are collectible as provided in subsection (4) for these charges.
(6)	Appeal. The owner of record who is aggrieved by the determination and order of the public officer may appeal the determination and order to the board of mayor and aldermen. The appeal shall be filed with the recorder within ten (10) days following the receipt of the notice issued pursuant to subsection (3) above. The failure to appeal within this time shall, without exception, constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing.
(7)	Judicial review. Any person aggrieved by an order or act of the board of mayor and aldermen under subsection (4) above may seek judicial review of the order or act. The time period established in subsection (3) above shall be stayed during the pendency of judicial review.
(8)	Supplemental nature of this section. The provisions of this section are in addition and supplemental to, and not in substitution for, any other provision in the municipal charter, this municipal code of ordinances or other applicable law which permits the city/town to proceed against an owner, tenant or occupant of property who has created, maintained, or permitted to be maintained on such property the growth of trees, vines, grass, weeds, underbrush and/or the accumulation of the debris, trash, litter, or garbage or any combination of the preceding elements, under its charter, any other provisions of this municipal code of ordinances or any other applicable law.

13-105.Dead animals. Any person owning or having possession of any dead animal not intended for use as food shall promptly bury the same or notify the recorder and dispose of such animal in such manner as the recorder shall direct.

13-106.Health and sanitation nuisances. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any premises owned, occupied, or controlled by him to become or remain in a filthy condition, or permit the use or occupation of same in such a manner as to create noxious or offensive smells and odors in connection therewith, or to allow the accumulation or creation of unwholesome and offensive matter or the breeding of flies, rodents, or other vermin on the premises to the menace of the public health or the annoyance of people residing within the vicinity.

13-107.Violations and penalty. Violations of this chapter shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 2

SLUM CLEARANCE2

SECTION
13-201.Findings of board.
13-202.Definitions.
13-203."Public officer" designated; powers.
13-204.Initiation of proceedings; hearings.
13-205.Orders to owners of unfit structures.
13-206.When public officer may repair, etc.
13-207.When public officer may remove or demolish.
13-208.Lien for expenses; sale of salvage materials; other powers not limited.
13-209.Basis for a finding of unfitness.
13-210.Service of complaints or orders.
13-211.Enjoining enforcement of orders.
13-212.Additional powers of public officer.
13-213.Powers conferred are supplemental.
13-214.Structures unfit for human habitation deemed unlawful.

13-201.Findings of board. Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 13-21-101, et seq., the board of mayor and aldermen finds that there exists in the city/town structures which are unfit for human occupation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or due to other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety and morals, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city/town.

13-202.Definitions. (1) "Dwelling" means any building or structure, or part thereof, used and occupied for human occupation or use or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
(2)	"Governing body" shall mean the board of mayor and aldermen charged with governing the city/town.
(3)	"Municipality" shall mean the City/Town of ______________________, Tennessee, and the areas encompassed within existing city/town limits or as hereafter annexed.
(4)	"Owner" shall mean the holder of title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
(5)	"Parties in interest" shall mean all individuals, associations, corporations and others who have interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
(6)	"Place of public accommodation" means any building or structure in which goods are supplied or services performed, or in which the trade of the general public is solicited.
(7)	"Public authority" shall mean any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the city/town or state relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other activities concerning structures in the city/town.
(8)	"Public officer" means any officer or officers of a municipality or the executive director or other chief executive officer of any commission or authority established by such municipality or jointly with any other municipality who is authorized by this chapter to exercise the power prescribed herein and pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 13-21-101, et seq.
(9)	"Structure" means any dwelling or place of public accommodation or vacant building or structure suitable as a dwelling or place of public accommodation.

13-203."Public officer" designated; powers. There is hereby designated and appointed a "public officer," to be the                  of the city/town, to exercise the powers prescribed by this chapter, which powers shall be supplemental to all others held by the                .*

[*Logically this would be the building inspector. It must be a person who is certified to enforce codes adopted by city.]

13-204.Initiation of proceedings; hearings. Whenever a petition is filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five (5) residents of the city/town charging that any structure is unfit for human occupancy or use, or whenever it appears to the public officer (on his own motion) that any structure is unfit for human occupation or use, the public officer shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of, and parties in interest of, such structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the public officer (or his designated agent) at a place therein fixed, not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days after the service of the complaint; and the owner and parties in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the time and place fixed in the complaint; and the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the public officer.

13-205.Orders to owners of unfit structures. If, after such notice and hearing as provided for in the preceding section, the public officer determines that the structure under consideration is unfit for human occupation or use, he shall state in writing his finding of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order:
(1)	If the repair, alteration or improvement of the structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the structure (not exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the reasonable value), requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such structure to render it fit for human occupation or use or to vacate and close the structure for human occupation or use; or
(2)	If the repair, alteration or improvement of said structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the structure (not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the value of the premises), requiring the owner within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such structure.

13-206.When public officer may repair, etc. If the owner fails to comply with the order to repair, alter, or improve or to vacate and close the structure as specified in the preceding section hereof, the public officer may cause such structure to be repaired, altered, or improved, or to be vacated and closed; and the public officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling so closed, a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human occupation or use. The use or occupation of this building for human occupation or use is prohibited and unlawful."

13-207.When public officer may remove or demolish. If the owner fails to comply with an order, as specified above, to remove or demolish the structure, the public officer may cause such structure to be removed and demolished.

13-208.Lien for expenses; sale of salvaged materials; other powers not limited. The amount of the cost of such repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the public officer, as well as reasonable fees for registration, inspections and professional evaluations of the property, shall be assessed against the owner of the property, and shall, upon the certification of the sum owed being presented to the municipal tax collector, be a lien on the property in favor of the municipality, second only to liens of the state, county and municipality for taxes, any lien of the municipality for special assessments, and any valid lien, right, or interest in such property duly recorded or duly perfected by filing, prior to the filing of such notice. These costs shall be collected by the municipal tax collector or county trustee at the same time and in the same manner as property taxes are collected. If the owner fails to pay the costs, they may be collected at the same time and in the same manner as delinquent property taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same penalty and interest as delinquent property taxes as set forth in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 67-5-2010 and § 67-5-2410. In addition, the municipality may collect the costs assessed against the owner through an action for debt filed in any court of competent jurisdiction. The municipality may bring one (1) action for debt against more than one (1) or all of the owners of properties against whom said costs have been assessed, and the fact that multiple owners have been joined in one (1) action shall not be considered by the court as a misjoinder of parties. If the structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, the public officer shall sell the materials of such structure and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the chancery court of               County by the public officer, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court, and shall be disbursed by such court to the person found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the City/Town of           to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement, by summary proceedings or otherwise.

13-209.Basis for a finding of unfitness. The public officer defined herein shall have the power and may determine that a structure is unfit for human occupation and use if he finds that conditions exist in such structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants or users of such structure, the occupants or users of neighboring structures or other residents of the City/Town of            .  Such conditions may include the following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing): defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident, or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; dilapidation; disrepair; structural defects; or uncleanliness.

13-210.Service of complaints or orders. Complaints or orders issued by the public officer pursuant to this chapter shall be served upon persons, either personally or by registered mail, but if the whereabouts of such persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the public officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of such complaint or order upon such persons may be made by publishing the same once each week for two (2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper printed and published in the city/town, or , in the absence of such newspaper, one (1) printed and published in the county and circulating in the city/town. In addition, a copy of such complaint or order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or order. A copy of such complaint or order shall also be filed for record in the Register's Office of   County, Tennessee, and such filing shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law.

13-211.Enjoining enforcement of orders. Any person affected by an order issued by the public officer served pursuant to this chapter may file a bill in chancery court for an injunction restraining the public officer from carrying out the provisions of the order, and the court may, upon the filing of such suit, issue a temporary injunction restraining the public officer pending the final disposition of the cause; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the posting and service of the order of the public officer, such person shall file such bill in the court.
The remedy provided herein shall be the exclusive remedy and no person affected by an order of the public officer shall be entitled to recover any damages for action taken pursuant to any order of the public officer, or because of noncompliance by such person with any order of the public officer.

13-212.Additional powers of public officer. The public officer, in order to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this chapter, shall have the following powers in addition to those otherwise granted herein:
(1)	To investigate conditions of the structures in the city/town in order to determine which structures therein are unfit for human occupation or use;
(2)	To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses and receive evidence;
(3)	To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examination, provided that such entry shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(4)	To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter; and
(5)	To delegate any of his functions and powers under this chapter to such officers and agents as he may designate.

13-213.Powers conferred are supplemental. This chapter shall not be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of the city/town with regard to the enforcement of the provisions of its charter or any other ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations thereof, and the powers conferred by this chapter shall be in addition and supplemental to the powers conferred by the charter and other laws.

13-214.Structures unfit for human habitation deemed unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any owner of record to create, maintain or permit to be maintained in the city/town structures which are unfit for human occupation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or due to other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety and morals, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city/town.
Violations of this section shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 3

JUNKYARDS3,4

[TO BE USED FOR CITIES WHICH WANT DETAILED REGULATIONS, INCLUDING PROVISIONS FOR NON-CONFORMING JUNKYARDS. FOR ABBREVIATED JUNKYARD REGULATIONS, SEE THE ALTERNATIVE CHAPTER 3 FOLLOWING THIS CHAPTER.]

SECTION
13-301.Definitions.
13-302.Junkyard screening.
13-303.Screening methods.
13-304.Requirements for effective screening.
13-305.Maintenance of screens.
13-306.Utilization of highway right-of-way.
13-307.Non-conforming junkyards.
13-308.Permits and fees.
13-309.Violations and penalty.

13-301.Definitions. (1) "Junk" shall mean old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber, debris, waste, or junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles, trucks, vehicles of all kinds, or parts thereof, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
(2)	"Junkyard" shall mean an establishment or place of business which is maintained, operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. This definition includes scrap metal processors, used auto parts yards, yards providing temporary storage of automobile bodies or parts awaiting disposal as a normal part of the business operation when the business will continually have like materials located on the premises, garbage dumps, sanitary landfills, and recycling centers.
(3)	"Person" means any individual, firm, agency, company, association, partnership, business trust, joint stock company, body politic, or corporation.
(4)	"Recycling center" means an establishment, place of business, facility or building which is maintained, operated, or used for the storing, keeping, buying, or selling of newspaper or used food or beverage containers or plastic containers for the purpose of converting such items into a usable product.
(5)	"Screening" means the use of plantings, fencing, natural objects, and other appropriate means which screen any deposit of junk so that the junk is not visible from the highways and streets of the city/town.

13-302.Junkyard screening. Every junkyard shall be screened or otherwise removed from view by its owner or operator in such a manner as to bring the junkyard into compliance with this chapter.

13-303.Screening methods. The following methods and materials for screening are given for consideration only:
(1)	Landscape planting. The planting of trees, shrubs, etc., of sufficient size and density to provide a year-round effective screen. Plants of the evergreen variety are recommended.
(2)	Earth grading. The construction of earth mounds which are graded, shaped, and planted to a natural appearance.
(3)	Architectural barriers. The utilization of:
(a)	Panel fences made of metal, plastic, fiberglass, or plywood.
(b)	Wood fences of vertical or horizontal boards using durable woods such as western cedar or redwood or others treated with a preservative.
(c)	Walls of masonry, including plain or ornamented concrete block, brick, stone, or other suitable materials.
(4)	Natural objects. Naturally occurring rock outcrops, woods, earth mounds, etc., may be utilized for screening or used in conjunction with fences, plantings, or other appropriate objects to form an effective screen.

13-304.Requirements for effective screening. Screening may be accomplished using natural objects, earth mounds, landscape plantings, fences, or other appropriate materials used singly or in combination as approved by the city/town. The effect of the completed screening must be the concealment of the junkyard from view on a year-round basis.
(1)	Screens which provide a "see-through" effect when viewed from a moving vehicle shall not be acceptable.
(2)	Open entrances through which junk materials are visible from the main traveled way shall not be permitted except where entrance gates, capable of concealing the junk materials when closed, have been installed. Entrance gates must remain closed from sundown to sunrise.
(3)	Screening shall be located on private property and not on any part of the highway right-of-way.
(4)	At no time after the screen is established shall junk be stacked or placed high enough to be visible above the screen nor shall junk be placed outside of the screened area.

13-305.Maintenance of screens. The owner or operator of the junkyard shall be responsible for maintaining the screen in good repair to insure the continuous concealment of the junkyard. Damaged or dilapidated screens, including dead or diseased plantings, which permit a view of the junk within shall render the junkyard visible and shall be in violation of this code and shall be replaced as required by the city/town.
If not replaced within sixty (60) days the city/town may replace said screening and require payment upon demand.

13-306.Utilization of highway right-of-way. The utilization of highway right-of-way for operating or maintaining any portion of a junkyard is prohibited; this shall include temporary use for the storage of junk pending disposition.

13-307.Non-conforming junkyards. Those junkyards within the city/town and lawfully in existence prior to the enactment of this code, which do not conform with the provisions of the code shall be considered as "non-conforming." Such junkyards shall be subject to the following conditions, any violation of which shall terminate the non-conforming status:
(1)	The junkyard must continue to be lawfully maintained.
(2)	There must be existing property rights in the junk or junkyard.
(3)	Abandoned junkyards shall no longer be lawful.
(4)	The location of the junkyard may not be changed for any reason. If the location is changed, the junkyard shall be treated as a new establishment at a new location and shall conform to the laws of the city/town.
(5)	The junkyard may not be extended or enlarged.

13-308.Permits and fees. It shall be unlawful for any junkyard located within the city/town to operate without a "junkyard control permit" issued by the city/town.
(1)	Permits shall be valid for the fiscal year for which issued and shall be subject to renewal each year. The city's/town's fiscal year begins on July 1 and ends on June 30 the year next following.
(2)	Each application for an original or renewal permit shall be accompanied by a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) which is not subject to either proration or refund.
(3)	All applications for an original or renewal permit shall be made on a form prescribed by the city/town.
(4)	Permits shall be issued only to those junkyards that are in compliance with these rules.
(5)	A permit is valid only while held by the permittee and for the location for which it is issued.

13-309.Violations and penalty. Violations of this chapter shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 3

JUNKYARDS

[ABBREVIATED PROVISIONS.] 

SECTION 
13-301.Junkyards.
13-302.Violations and penalty.

13-301.Junkyards. All junkyards within the corporate limits shall be operated and maintained subject to the following regulations:
(1)	All junk stored or kept in such yards shall be so kept that it will not catch and hold water in which mosquitoes may breed and so that it will not constitute a place, or places in which rats, mice, or other vermin may be harbored, reared, or propagated.
(2)	All such junkyards shall be enclosed within close fitting plank or metal solid fences touching the ground on the bottom and being not less than six feet (6') in height, such fence to be built so that it will be impossible for stray cats and/or stray dogs to have access to such junkyards.
(3)	Such yards shall be so maintained as to be in a sanitary condition and so as not to be a menace to the public health or safety.

13-302.Violations and penalty. Violations of this chapter shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 4

JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES

SECTION
13-401.Definitions.
13-402.Violations a civil offense.
13-403.Exceptions.
13-404.Enforcement.
13-405.Violations and penalty.

13-401.Definitions. For the purpose of the interpretation and application of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the indicated meanings: 
(1)	"Person" shall mean any natural person, or any firm, partnership, association, corporation or other organization of any kind and description. 
(2)	"Private property" shall include all property that is not public property, regardless of how the property is zoned or used. 
(3)	"Traveled portion of any public street or highway" shall mean the width of the street from curb to curb, or where there are no curbs, the entire width of the paved portion of the street, or where the street is unpaved, the entire width of the street in which vehicles ordinarily use for travel. 
(4)	(a)	"Junk vehicle" shall mean a vehicle of any age that is damaged or defective, including but not limited to, any one or combination of any of the following ways that either makes the vehicle immediately inoperable, or would prohibit the vehicle from being operated in a reasonably safe manner upon the public streets and highways under its own power if self-propelled, or while being towed or pushed, if not self-propelled: 
(i)	Flat tires, missing tires, missing wheels, or missing or partially or totally disassembled tires and wheels. 
(ii)	Missing or partially or totally disassembled essential part or parts of the vehicle’s drive train, including, but not limited to, engine, transmission, transaxle, drive shaft, differential, or axle. 
(iii)	Extensive exterior body damage or missing or partially or totally disassembled essential body parts, including, but not limited to, fenders, doors, engine hood, bumper or bumpers, windshield, or windows. 
(iv)	Missing or partially or totally disassembled essential interior parts, including, but not limited to, driver’s seat, steering wheel, instrument panel, clutch, brake, gear shift lever. 
(v)	Missing or partially or totally disassembled parts essential to the starting or running of the vehicle under its own power, including, but not limited to, starter, generator or alternator, battery, distributor, gas tank, carburetor or fuel injection system, spark plugs, or radiator. 
(vi)	Interior is a container for metal, glass, paper, rags or other cloth, wood, auto parts, machinery, waste or discarded materials in such quantity, quality and arrangement that a driver cannot be properly seated in the vehicle. 
(vii)	Lying on the ground (upside down, on its side, or at other extreme angle), sitting on block or suspended in the air by any other method. 
(viii)	General environment in which the vehicle sits, including, but not limited to, vegetation that has grown up around, in or through the vehicle, the collection of pools of water in the vehicle, and the accumulation of other garbage or debris around the vehicle.
(b)	"Vehicle" shall mean any machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to travel along the ground by the use of wheels, treads, self-laying tracks, runners, slides or skids, including but not limited to automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, motor scooters, go-carts, campers, tractors, trailers, tractor-trailers, buggies, wagons, and earth-moving equipment, and any part of the same.

13-402.Violations a civil offense. It shall be unlawful and a civil offense for any person: 
(1)	To park and or in any other manner place and leave unattended on the traveled portion of any public street or highway a junk vehicle for any period of time, even if the owner or operator of the vehicle did not intend to permanently desert or forsake the vehicle. 
(2)	To park or in any other manner place and leave unattended on the untraveled portion of any street or highway, or upon any other public property, a junk vehicle for more than forty-eight (48) continuous hours, even if the owner or operator of the vehicle did not intend to permanently desert or forsake the vehicle. 
(3)	To park, store, keep, maintain on private property a junk vehicle. 

13-403.Exceptions. (1) It shall be permissible for a person to park, store, keep and maintain a junked vehicle on private property under the following conditions:
(a)	The junk vehicle is completely enclosed within a building where neither the vehicle nor any part of it is visible from the street or from any other abutting property. However, this exception shall not exempt the owner or person in possession of the property from any zoning, building, housing, property maintenance, and other regulations governing the building in which such vehicle is enclosed. 
(b)	The junk vehicle is parked or stored on property lawfully zoned for business engaged in wrecking, junking or repairing vehicles. However, this exception shall not exempt the owner or operator of any such business from any other zoning, building, fencing, property maintenance and other regulations governing business engaged in wrecking, junking or repairing vehicles. 
(2)	No person shall park, store, keep and maintain on private property a junk vehicle for any period of time if it poses an immediate threat to the health and safety of citizens of the city/town. 

13-404.Enforcement. Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-63-101, the building inspector is authorized to issue ordinance summons for violations of this ordinance on private property. The building inspector shall upon the complaint of any citizen, or acting on his own information, investigate complaints of junked vehicles on private property. If after such investigation the building inspector finds a junked vehicle on private property, he shall issue an ordinance summons. The ordinance summons shall be served upon the owner or owners of the property, or upon the person or persons apparently in lawful possession of the property, and shall give notice to the same to appear and answer the charges against him or them. If the offender refuses to sign the agreement to appear, the building inspector may:
(1)	Request the city/town judge to issue a summons, or
(2)	Request a police officer to witness the violation. The police officer who witnesses the violation may issue the offender a citation in lieu of arrest as authorized by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-63-101 et seq., or if the offender refuses to sign the citation, may arrest the offender for failure to sign the citation in lieu of arrest.

13-405.Violations and penalty. Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus court costs for each separate violation of this chapter. In addition, pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-5-122, the municipal court may issue an order to remove vehicles from private property. Each day the violation of this chapter continues shall be considered a separate violation.