
TITLE 17

REFUSE AND TRASH DISPOSAL1

CHAPTER
1.REFUSE.

CHAPTER 1

REFUSE

SECTION
17-101.Refuse defined.
17-102.Premises to be kept clean.
17-103.Storage.
17-104.Location of containers.
17-105.Disturbing containers.
17-106.Collection.
17-107.Collection vehicles.
17-108.Disposal.
17-109.Refuse collection fees.
17-110.Violations and penalty.

[If city/town contracts for garbage removal services, this chapter should have language that is consistent with that city/town contract.]

17-101.Refuse defined. Refuse shall mean and include garbage, rubbish, leaves, brush, and refuse as those terms are generally defined except that dead animals and fowls, body wastes, hot ashes, rocks, concrete, bricks, and similar materials are expressly excluded therefrom and shall not be stored therewith.

17-102.Premises to be kept clean. All persons within the city/town are required to keep their premises in a clean and sanitary condition, free from accumulations of refuse except when stored as provided in this chapter.

17-103.Storage. Each owner, occupant, or other responsible person using or occupying any building or other premises within this city/town where refuse accumulates or is likely to accumulate, shall provide and keep covered an adequate number of refuse containers. The refuse containers shall be strong, durable, and rodent and insect proof. They shall each have a capacity of not less than twenty (20) nor more than thirty-two (32) gallons, except that this maximum capacity shall not apply to larger containers which the city/town handles mechanically. Furthermore, except for containers which the city/town handles mechanically, the combined weight of any refuse container and its contents shall not exceed thirty-five (35) pounds. No refuse shall be placed in a refuse container until such refuse has been drained of all free liquids. Tree trimmings, hedge clippings, and similar materials shall be cut to a length not to exceed four feet (4') and shall be securely tied in individual bundles weighing not more than thirty-five (35) pounds each and being not more than two feet (2') thick before being deposited for collection.

17-104.Location of containers. Where alleys are used by the city/town refuse collectors, containers shall be placed on or within six feet (6') of the alley line in such a position as not to intrude upon the traveled portion of the alley. Where streets are used by the city/town refuse collectors, containers shall be placed adjacent to and back of the curb, or adjacent to and back of the ditch or street line if there is no curb, at such times as shall be scheduled by the city/town for the collection of refuse therefrom. As soon as practicable after such containers have been emptied, they shall be removed by the owner to within, or to the rear of, his premises and away from the street line until the next scheduled time for collection.

17-105.Disturbing containers. No unauthorized person shall uncover, rifle, pilfer, dig into, turn over, or in any other manner disturb or use any refuse container belonging to another. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the use of public refuse containers for their intended purpose.

17-106.Collection. All refuse accumulated within the corporate limits shall be collected, conveyed, and disposed of under the supervision of the _________________. Collections shall be made regularly in accordance with an announced schedule.

17-107.Collection vehicles. The collection of refuse shall be by means of vehicles with beds constructed of impervious materials which are easily cleanable and so constructed that there will be no leakage of liquids draining from the refuse onto the streets and alleys. Furthermore, all refuse collection vehicles shall utilize closed beds or such coverings as will effectively prevent the scattering of refuse over the streets or alleys.

17-108.Disposal. The disposal of refuse in any quantity by any person in any place, public or private, other than at the site or sites designated for refuse disposal by the board of mayor and aldermen is expressly prohibited.

17-109.Refuse collection fees. Refuse collection fees shall be at such rates as are from time to time set by the board of mayor and aldermen by resolution.2
		
17-110.Violations and penalty. Violations of this chapter shall subject the offender to a penalty under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.