	TITLE 15

MOTOR VEHICLES, TRAFFIC AND PARKING1

CHAPTER
1.MISCELLANEOUS.
2.EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
3.SPEED LIMITS.
4.TURNING MOVEMENTS.
5.STOPPING AND YIELDING.
6.PARKING.
7.ENFORCEMENT.

CHAPTER 1

MISCELLANEOUS2

SECTION
15-101.Motor vehicle requirements.
15-102.Driving on streets closed for repairs, etc.
15-103.One-way streets.
15-104.Unlaned streets.
15-105.Laned streets.
15-106.Yellow lines.
15-107.Miscellaneous traffic control signs, etc.
15-108.General requirements for traffic control signs, etc.
15-109.Unauthorized traffic control signs, etc.
15-110.School safety patrols.
15-111.Driving through funerals or other processions.
15-112.Clinging to vehicles in motion.
15-113.Riding on outside of vehicles. 
15-114.Backing vehicles.
15-115.Projections from the rear of vehicles.
15-116.Causing unnecessary noise.
15-117.Vehicles and operators to be licensed.
15-118.Passing.
15-119.Motorcycles, motor driven cycles, motorized bicycles, bicycles, etc.
15-120.Delivery of vehicle to unlicensed driver, etc.
15-121.Compliance with financial responsibility law required.
15-122.Adoption of state traffic statutes.

15-101.Motor vehicle requirements. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle within the corporate limits unless such vehicle is equipped with properly operating muffler, lights, brakes, horn, and such other equipment as is prescribed and required by Tennessee Code Annotated, title 55, chapter 9.

15-102.Driving on streets closed for repairs, etc. Except for necessary access to property abutting thereon, no motor vehicle shall be driven upon any street that is barricaded or closed for repairs or other lawful purpose.

15-103.One-way streets. On any street for one-way traffic with posted signs indicating the authorized direction of travel at all intersections offering access thereto, no person shall operate any vehicle except in the indicated direction.

15-104.Unlaned streets. (1) Upon all unlaned streets of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the street except: 
(a)	When lawfully overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction.
(b)	When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under construction or repair.
(c)	Upon a roadway designated and signposted by the city/town for one-way traffic.
(2)	All vehicles proceeding at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall be driven as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for a left turn.

15-105.Laned streets. On streets marked with traffic lanes, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep his vehicle within the boundaries of the proper lane for his direction of travel except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
On two (2) lane and three (3) lane streets, the proper lane for travel shall be the right hand lane unless otherwise clearly marked. On streets with four (4) or more lanes, either of the right hand lanes shall be available for use except that traffic moving at less than the normal rate of speed shall use the extreme right hand lane. On one-way streets either lane may be lawfully used in the absence of markings to the contrary.

15-106.Yellow lines. On streets with a yellow line placed to the right of any lane line or center line, such yellow line shall designate a no-passing zone, and no operator shall drive his vehicle or any part thereof across or to the left of such yellow line except when necessary to make a lawful left turn from such street.

15-107.Miscellaneous traffic control signs, etc.3 It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian or the operator of any vehicle to violate or fail to comply with any traffic control sign, signal, marking, or device placed or erected by the state or the city/town unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order of any police officer invested by law with the authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.

15-108.General requirements for traffic control signs, etc. Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 54-5-108, all traffic control signs, signals, markings, and devices shall conform to the latest revision of the Tennessee Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways,4 and shall be uniform as to type and location throughout the city/town.

15-109.Unauthorized traffic control signs, etc. No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any street, any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control sign, signal, marking, or device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to control the movement of traffic or parking of vehicles, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control sign, signal, marking, or device or any rail­road sign or signal.

15-110.School safety patrols. All motorists and pedestrians shall obey the directions or signals of school safety patrols when such patrols are assigned under the authority of the chief of police and are acting in accordance with instructions; provided, that such persons giving any order, signal, or direction shall at the time be wearing some insignia and/or using authorized flags for giving signals.

15-111.Driving through funerals or other processions. Except when otherwise directed by a police officer, no driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated.

15-112.Clinging to vehicles in motion. It shall be unlawful for any person traveling upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates, or any other vehicle to cling to, or attach himself or his vehicle to any other moving vehicle upon any street, alley, or other public way or place.

15-113.Riding on outside of vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, or for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle being operated on a street, alley, or other public way or place, to permit any person to ride on any portion of such vehicle not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This section shall not apply to persons engaged in the necessary discharge of lawful duties nor to persons riding in the load-carrying space of trucks.

15-114.Backing vehicles. The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.

15-115.Projections from the rear of vehicles. Whenever the load or any projecting portion of any vehicle shall extend beyond the rear of the bed or body thereof, the operator shall display at the end of such load or projection, in such position as to be clearly visible from the rear of such vehicle, a red flag being not less than twelve (12) inches square. Between one half (1/2) hour after sunset and one half (1/2) hour before sunrise, there shall be displayed in place of the flag a red light plainly visible under normal atmospheric conditions at least two hundred feet (200') from the rear of such vehicle.

15-116.Causing unnecessary noise. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause unnecessary noise by unnecessarily sounding the horn, "racing" the motor, or causing the "screeching" or "squealing" of the tires on any motor vehicle.

15-117.Vehicles and operators to be licensed. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in violation of the "Tennessee Motor Vehicle Title and Registration Law" or the "Uniform Classified and Commercial Driver License Act of 1988."

15-118.Passing. Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the driver of a vehicle passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the street until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. The driver of the overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
When the street is wide enough, the driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon the left or upon the right on a street of sufficient width for four (4) or more lanes of moving traffic when such movement can be made in safety.
No person shall drive off the pavement or upon the shoulder of the street in overtaking or passing on the right.
	When any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the street, no operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. 
No vehicle operator shall attempt to pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless he can see that the way ahead is sufficiently clear and unobstructed to enable him to make the movement in safety.

15-119.Motorcycles, motor driven cycles, motorized bicycles, bicycles, etc. (1)Definitions For the purpose of the application of this section, the following words shall have the definitions indicated:
(a)	"Motorcycle." Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, including a vehicle that is fully enclosed, has three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, weighs less than one thousand five hundred pounds (1,500 lbs.), and has the capacity to maintain posted highway speed limits, but excluding a tractor or motorized bicycle.
(b)	"Motor-driven cycle." Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter, with a motor which produces not to exceed five (5) brake horsepower, or with a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding one hundred and twenty-five cubic centimeters (125cc);
(c)	"Motorized bicycle." A vehicle with two (2) or three (3) wheels, an automatic transmission, and a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding fifty cubic centimeters (50cc) which produces no more than two (2) brake horsepower and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a maximum design speed of no more than thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground.
(2)	Every person riding or operating a bicycle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle or motorized bicycle shall be subject to the provisions of all traffic ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city/town applicable to the driver or operator of other vehicles except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application to bicycles, motorcycles, motor driven cycles, or motorized bicycles.
(3)	No person operating or riding a bicycle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle or motorized bicycle shall ride other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor shall the operator carry any other person upon such vehicle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon.
(4)	No bicycle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle or motorized bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one (1) time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(5)	No person operating a bicycle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle or motorized bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article which prevents the rider from keeping both hands upon the handlebars.
(6)	No person under the age of sixteen (16) years shall operate any motorcycle, motor driven cycle or motorized bicycle while any other person is a passenger upon said motor vehicle.
(7)	(a)	Each driver of a motorcycle, motor driven cycle, or motorized bicycle and any passenger thereon shall be required to wear on his head, either a crash helmet meeting federal standards contained in 49 CFR 571.218, or, if such driver or passenger is twenty-one (21) years of age or older, a helmet meeting the following requirements:
(i)	Except as provided in subdivisions (a)(ii)-(iv), the helmet shall meet federal motor vehicle safety standards specified in 49 CFR 571.218;
(ii)	Notwithstanding any provision in 49 CFR 571.218 relative to helmet penetration standards, ventilation airways may penetrate through the entire shell of the helmet; provided, that no ventilation airway shall exceed one and one-half inches (1-1/2") in diameter;
(iii)	Notwithstanding any provision in 49 CFR 571.218, the protective surface shall not be required to be a continuous contour; and
(iv)	Notwithstanding any provision in 49 CFR 571.218 to the contrary, a label on the helmet shall be affixed signifying that such helmet complies with the requirements of the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM), the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), or the Snell Memorial Foundation, Inc.
(b)	This section does not apply to persons riding:
(i)	Within an enclosed cab;
(ii)	Motorcycles that are fully enclosed, have three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, weigh less than one thousand five hundred pounds (1,500 lbs.) and have the capacity to maintain posted highway speed limits;
(iii)	Golf carts; or
(iv)	In a parade, at a speed not to exceed thirty (30) miles per hour, if the person is eighteen (18) years or older.
(8)	Every motorcycle, motor driven cycle, or motorized bicycle operated upon any public way within the corporate limits shall be equipped with a windshield or, in the alternative, the operator and any passenger on any such motorcycle, motor driven cycle or motorized bicycle shall be required to wear safety goggles, faceshield or glasses containing impact resistant lens for the purpose of preventing any flying object from striking the operator or any passenger in the eyes.
(9)	It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or ride on any vehicle in violation of this section, and it shall also be unlawful for any parent or guardian knowingly to permit any minor to operate a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or motorized bicycle in violation of this section.

15-120.Delivery of vehicle to unlicensed driver, etc.
(1)	Definitions. (a) "Adult" shall mean any person eighteen (18) years of age or older.
(b)	"Automobile" shall mean any motor driven automobile, car, truck, tractor, motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motorized bicycle, or vehicle driven by mechanical power.
(c)	"Custody" means the control of the actual, physical care of the juvenile, and includes the right and responsibility to provide for the physical, mental, moral and emotional well being of the juvenile. "Custody" as herein defined, relates to those rights and responsibilities as exercised either by the juvenile's parent or parents or a person granted custody by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(d)	"Drivers license" shall mean a motor vehicle operators license or chauffeurs license issued by the State of Tennessee. 
(e)	"Juvenile" as used in this chapter shall mean a person less than eighteen years of age, and no exception shall be made for a juvenile who has been emancipated by marriage or otherwise.
(2)	It shall be unlawful for any adult to deliver the possession of or the control of any automobile or other motor vehicle to any person, whether an adult or a juvenile, who does not have in his possession a valid motor vehicle operators or chauffeurs license issued by the Department of Safety of the State of Tennessee, or for any adult to permit any person, whether an adult or a juvenile, to drive any motor vehicle upon the streets, highways, roads, ­avenues, parkways, alleys or public thoroughfares in the city/town unless such person has a valid motor vehicle operators or chauffeurs license as issued by the Department of Safety of the State of Tennessee.
(3)	It shall be unlawful for any parent or person having custody of a juvenile to permit any such juvenile to drive a motor vehicle upon the streets, highways, roads, parkways, avenues or public ways in the town in a reckless, careless, or unlawful manner, or in such a manner as to violate the ordinances of the town.

15-121.Compliance with financial responsibility law required.
(1)	This section shall apply to every vehicle subject to the state registration and certificate of title provisions.
(2)	At the time the driver of a motor vehicle is charged with any moving violation under Tennessee Code Annotated, title 55, chapters 8 and 10, parts 1-5, chapter 50; any provision in this title of this municipal code; or at the time of an accident for which notice is required under Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-10-106, the officer shall request evidence of financial responsibility as required by this section. In case of an accident for which notice is required under Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-10-106, the officer shall request such evidence from all drivers involved in the accident, without regard to apparent or actual fault. For the purposes of this section, "financial responsibility" shall be defined by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-12-139.
(3)	It is a civil offense to fail to provide evidence of financial responsibility pursuant to this section. Any violation is punishable by a civil penalty of up to fifty dollars ($50.00).
(4)	The penalty imposed by this section shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed by the laws of this state or this municipal code.
(5)	On or before the court date, the person so charged may submit evidence of financial responsibility at the time of the violation. If it is the person's first violation of this section and the court is satisfied that the financial responsibility was in effect at the time of the violation, the charge of failure to provide evidence of financial responsibility shall be dismissed. Upon the person's second or subsequent violation of this section, if the court is satisfied that the financial responsibility was in effect at the time of the violation, the charge of failure to provide evidence of financial responsibility may be dismissed. Any charge that is dismissed pursuant to this subsection shall be dismissed without costs to the defendant and no litigation tax shall be due or collected, notwithstanding any law to the contrary.

15-122.Adoption of state traffic statutes. By the authority granted under Tennessee Code Annotated, § 16-18-302, the town adopts by reference as if fully set forth in this section, the "Rules of the Road," as codified in Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 55-8-101 to 55-8-131, and §§ 55-8-133 to 55-8-180. Additionally, the town adopts Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-4-101 through 55-4-135, §§ 55-8-181 to 55-8-193, §§ 55-8-199, 55-8-204, §§ 55-9-601 to 55-9-606, § 55-12-139, § 55-21-108, and § 55-50-351 by reference as if fully set forth in this section. 


CHAPTER 2

EMERGENCY VEHICLES

SECTION
15-201.Authorized emergency vehicles defined.
15-202.Operation of authorized emergency vehicles.
15-203.Following emergency vehicles.
15-204.Running over fire hoses, etc.

15-201.Authorized emergency vehicles defined. Authorized emergency vehicles shall be fire department vehicles, police vehicles, and such ambulances and other emergency vehicles as are designated by the chief of police.

15-202.Operation of authorized emergency vehicles. (1) The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, subject to the conditions herein stated.
(2)	The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
(a)	Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
(b)	Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation; 
(c)	Exceed the maximum speed limit so long as life or property is not thereby endangered; and
(d)	Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in specified directions.
(3)	 The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when such vehicle is making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the applicable laws of this state, except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle may be equipped with or display a red light only in combination with a blue light visible from in front of the vehicle.

15-203.Following emergency vehicles. No driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall follow any authorized emergency vehicle apparently traveling in response to an emergency call closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.

15-204.Running over fire hoses, etc. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive over any hose lines or other equipment of the fire department except in obedience to the direction of a firefighter or police officer.
CHAPTER 3

SPEED LIMITS

SECTION
15-301.In general.
15-302.At intersections.
15-303.In school zones.

15-301.In general. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a motor vehicle upon any highway or street at a rate of speed in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour except where official signs have been posted indicating other speed limits, in which cases the posted speed limit shall apply.

15-302.At intersections. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a motor vehicle through any intersection at a rate of speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour unless such person is driving on a street regulated by traffic control signals or signs which require traffic to stop or yield on the intersecting streets.

15-303.In school zones. Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-8-152, the city/town shall have the authority to enact special speed limits in school zones. Such special speed limits shall be enacted based on an engineering investigation; shall not be less than fifteen (15) miles per hour; and shall be in effect only when proper signs are posted with a warning flasher or flashers in operation. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any such special speed limit enacted and in effect in accordance with this paragraph. 
In school zones where the board of mayor and aldermen has not established special speed limits as provided for above, any person who shall drive at a speed exceeding fifteen (15) miles per hour when passing a school during a recess period when a warning flasher or flashers are in operation, or during a period of ninety (90) minutes before the opening hour of a school, or a period of ninety (90) minutes after the closing hour of a school (give time amount if special school district), while children are actually going to or leaving school, shall be prima facie guilty of reckless driving.
CHAPTER 4

TURNING MOVEMENTS

SECTION
15-401.Generally.
15-402.Right turns.
15-403.Left turns on two-way roadways.
15-404.Left turns on other than two-way roadways.
15-405.U-turns.

15-401.Generally. Every driver who intends to turn, or partly turn from a direct line, shall first see that such movement can be made in safety, and whenever the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement, shall give a signal required in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-8-143, plainly visible to the driver of such other vehicle of the intention to make such movement.

15-402.Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.

15-403.Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the right of such center line where it enters the intersection, and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.

15-404.Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one (1) direction on one (1) or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.

15-405.U-turns. U-turns are prohibited.
CHAPTER 5

STOPPING AND YIELDING

SECTION
15-501.When emerging from alleys, etc.
15-502.To prevent obstructing an intersection.
15-503.At railroad crossings.
15-504.At "stop" signs.
15-505.At "yield" signs.
15-506.At traffic control signals generally.
15-507.At flashing traffic control signals.
15-508.At pedestrian control signals.
15-509.Stops to be signaled.

15-501.When emerging from alleys, etc. The drivers of all vehicles emerging from alleys, parking lots, driveways, or buildings shall stop such vehicles immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.

15-502.To prevent obstructing an intersection. No driver shall enter any intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of such intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of traffic in or on the intersecting street or crosswalk. This provision shall be effective notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.

15-503.At railroad crossings. (1) Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until that driver can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
(a)	A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
(b)	A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives or continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
(c)	A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate hazard; and
(d)	An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing.
(2)	No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.

15-504.At "stop" signs. The driver of a vehicle facing a "stop" sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control signal.

15-505.At "yield" signs. (1) The driver of a vehicle who is faced with a yield sign at the entrance to a through highway or other public roadway is not necessarily required to stop, but is required to exercise caution in entering the highway or other roadway and to yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from the highway or other roadway, or which are approaching so closely on the highway or other roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard, and the driver having so yielded may proceed when the way is clear.
(2)	Where there is provided more than one (1) lane for vehicular traffic entering a through highway or other public roadway, if one (1) or more lanes at such entrance are designated a yield lane by an appropriate marker, this section shall control the movement of traffic in any lane so marked with a yield sign, even though traffic in other lanes may be controlled by an electrical signal device or other signs, signals, markings or controls.

15-506.At traffic control signals generally. Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting different colored lights successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used and the terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows: 
(1)	Green alone, or "Go":
(a)	Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
(b)	Pedestrians facing the signal may pro­ceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
(2)	Yellow alone, or "Caution," when shown following the green or "Go" signal:
(a)	Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or "Stop" signal is exhibited.
(b)	Pedestrians facing the signal are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles. 
(3)	Red alone, or "Stop":
(a)	Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is shown alone. A right turn on a red signal shall be permitted at all intersections within the city/town, provided that the prospective turning car shall come to a full and complete stop before turning and that the turning car shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and cross traffic traveling in accordance with their traffic signal. However, such turn will not endanger other traffic lawfully using the intersection. A right turn on red shall be permitted at all intersections, except those that are clearly marked by a "No Turns On Red" sign, which may be erected by the city/town at intersections which the city/town decides require no right turns on red in the interest of traffic safety.
(b)	No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless such entry can be made safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(c)	A left turn on a red or stop signal shall be permitted at all intersections within the city/town where a one-way street intersects with another one-way street moving in the same direction into which the left turn would be made from the original one-way street. Before making such a turn, the prospective turning car shall come to a full and complete stop and shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and cross traffic traveling in accordance with the traffic signal so as not to endanger traffic lawfully using the intersection. A left turn on red shall be permitted at any applicable intersection except that clearly marked by a "No Turn on Red" sign, which may be erected by the city/town at intersections which the city/town decides requires no left turns on red in the interest of traffic safety.
(d)	The driver of a motorcycle approaching an intersection that is controlled by a traffic-control signal utilizing a vehicle detection device that is inoperative due to the size of the motorcycle shall come to a full and complete stop at the intersection and, after exercising due care as provided by law, may proceed with due caution when it is safe to do so. It is not a defense to § 15-506, "At traffic control signals generally," that the driver of a motorcycle proceeded under the belief that a traffic-control signal utilized a vehicle detection device or was inoperative due to the size of the motorcycle when such signal did not utilize a vehicle detection device or that any such device was not in fact inoperative due to the size of the motorcycle.
(4)	Steady red with green arrow:
(a)	Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
(b)	No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless such entry can be made safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(5)	In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.

15-507.At flashing traffic control signals. (1) Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
(a)	Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with intermittent flashes, and the light is clearly visible for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such stopping, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
(b)	Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(2)	This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by the rules set forth in § 15-504 of this code.

15-508.At pedestrian control signals. Wherever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or "Wait" or "Don't Walk" are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
(1)	Walk. Pedestrians facing such signals may proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
(2)	Wait or Don't Walk. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the wait signal is showing.

15-509.Stops to be signaled. Every driver operating a motor vehicle who intends to stop such vehicle, shall first see that such movement can be made in safety, and whenever the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement, shall give the signal required in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-8-143, plainly visible to the driver of such other vehicle of the intention to make such movement.
CHAPTER 6

PARKING

SECTION
15-601.Generally.
15-602.Angle parking.
15-603.Occupancy of more than one space.
15-604.Where prohibited.
15-605.Loading and unloading zones.
15-606.Regulation by parking meters.
15-607.Lawful parking in parking meter spaces.
15-608.Unlawful parking in parking meter spaces.
15-609.Unlawful to occupy more than one parking meter space.
15-610.Unlawful to deface or tamper with meters.
15-611.Unlawful to deposit slugs in meters.
15-612.Presumption with respect to illegal parking.

15-601.Generally. No person shall leave any motor vehicle unattended on any street without first setting the brakes thereon, stopping the motor, removing the ignition key, and turning the front wheels of such vehicle toward the nearest curb or gutter of the street.
Except as hereinafter provided, every vehicle parked upon a street within this city/town shall be so parked that its right wheels are approximately parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the right edge or curb of the street. On one-way streets where the city/town has not placed signs prohibiting the same, vehicles may be permitted to park on the left side of the street, and in such cases the left wheels shall be required to be within eighteen inches (18") of the left edge or curb of the street.
Notwithstanding anything else in this code to the contrary, no person shall park or leave a vehicle parked on any public street or alley within the fire limits between the hours of 1:00 A.M. and 5:00 A.M. or on any other public street or alley for more than seventy-two (72) consecutive hours without the prior approval of the chief of police.
Furthermore, no person shall wash, grease, or work on any vehicle, except to make repairs necessitated by an emergency, while such vehicle is parked on a public street.

15-602.Angle parking. On those streets which have been signed or marked by the city/town for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle indicated by such signs or markings. No person shall angle park any vehicle which has a trailer attached thereto or which has a length in excess of twenty-four feet (24').

15-603.Occupancy of more than one space. No person shall park a vehicle in any designated parking space so that any part of such vehicle occupies more than one (1) such space or protrudes beyond the official markings on the street or curb designating such space unless the vehicle is too large to be parked within a single designated space.

15-604.Where prohibited. No person shall park a vehicle in violation of any sign placed or erected by the state or city/town, nor:
(1)	On a sidewalk; provided, however, a bicycle may be parked on a sidewalk if it does not impede the normal and reasonable movement of pedestrian or other traffic.
(2)	In front of a public or private driveway;
(3)	Within an intersection;
(4)	Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
(5)	Within a pedestrian crosswalk;
(6)	Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
(7)	Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
(8)	Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
(9)	Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within seventy-five feet (75') of such entrance when properly signposted;
(10)	Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
(11)	On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a street;
(12)	Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a highway tunnel;
(13)	In a parking space clearly identified by an official sign as being reserved for the physically handicapped, unless, however, the person driving the vehicle is:
(a)	Physically handicapped, or
(b)	Parking such vehicle for the benefit of a physically handicapped person.
A vehicle parking in such a space shall display a certificate of identification or a disabled veteran's license plate issued under Tennessee Code Annotated, title 55, chapter 21.

15-605.Loading and unloading zones. No person shall park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers or merchandise in any place marked by the city/town as a loading and unloading zone.

15-606.Regulation by parking meters. In the absence of an official sign to the contrary which has been installed by the city/town, between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M., on all days except Sundays and holidays declared by the board of mayor and aldermen, parking shall be regulated by parking meters where the same have been installed by the city/town. The presumption shall be that all installed parking meters were lawfully installed by the city/town.

15-607.Lawful parking in parking meter spaces. Any parking space regulated by a parking meter may be lawfully occupied by a vehicle only after a proper coin has been deposited in the parking meter and the said meter has been activated or placed in operation in accordance with the instructions printed thereon.

15-608.Unlawful parking in parking meter spaces. It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to park or allow his vehicle to be parked in a parking space regulated by a parking meter for more than the maximum period of time which can be purchased at one time. Insertion of additional coin or coins in the meter to purchase additional time is unlawful.
No owner or operator of any vehicle shall park or allow his vehicle to be parked in such a space when the parking meter therefor indicates no parking time allowed, whether such indication is the result of a failure to deposit a coin or to operate the lever or other actuating device on the meter, or the result of the automatic operation of the meter following the expiration of the lawful parking time subsequent to depositing a coin therein at the time the vehicle was parked.

15-609.Unlawful to occupy more than one parking meter space. It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to park or allow his vehicle to be parked across any line or marking designating a parking meter space or otherwise so that such vehicle is not entirely within the designated parking meter space; provided, however, that vehicles which are too large to park within one (1) space may be permitted to occupy two (2) adjoining spaces provided proper coins are placed in both meters.

15-610.Unlawful to deface or tamper with meters. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, deface, tamper with, willfully break, destroy, or impair the usefulness of any parking meter.

15-611.Unlawful to deposit slugs in meters. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in a parking meter any slug or other substitute for a coin of the United States.

15-612.Presumption with respect to illegal parking. When any unoccupied vehicle is found parked in violation of any provision of this chapter, there shall be a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle is responsible for such illegal parking.
CHAPTER 7

ENFORCEMENT

SECTION
15-701.Issuance of traffic citations.
15-702.Failure to obey citation.
15-703.Illegal parking.
15-704.Impoundment of vehicles.
15-705.Disposal of abandoned motor vehicles.
15-706.Violations and penalty.

15-701.Issuance of traffic citations.5 When a police officer halts a traffic violator other than for the purpose of giving a warning, he shall take the name, address, and operator's license number of said person, the license number of the motor vehicle involved, and such other pertinent information as may be necessary, and shall issue to him a written traffic citation containing a notice to answer to the charge against him in the city/town court at a specified time. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged violator to answer as specified in the citation, shall release such person from custody. It shall be unlawful for any alleged violator to give false or misleading information as to his name or address.
[Optional] Authorization to issue electronic citations in lieu of written citations or arrest in certain situations. Tennessee Code Annotated, § 40-7-118 defines "citations" to include electronic citation, allowing an electronic signature to be used to sign a citation issued electronically, and providing that the electronic signature has the same force and effect as a written signature. The officer is required to provide the individual cited with a paper copy of the electronic citation. Replicas of the citation data is to be sent by electronic transmission to be sent within three (3) days of issuance to the court having jurisdiction the alleged offense. An electronic signature may be used to sign a citation issued electronically and that electronic signature has the same force and effect as a written signature.

15-702.Failure to obey citation. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate his written promise to appear in court after giving said promise to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the citation was originally issued.

15-703.Illegal parking. Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this code, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its license number and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a citation for the driver and/or owner to answer for the violation within thirty (30) days during the hours and at a place specified in the citation.

15-704.Impoundment of vehicles. Members of the police department are hereby authorized, when reasonably necessary for the security of the vehicle or to prevent obstruction of traffic, to remove from the streets and impound any vehicle whose operator is arrested or any unattended vehicle which is parked so as to constitute an obstruction or hazard to normal traffic, or which has been parked for more than one (1) hour in excess of the time allowed for parking in any place, or which has been involved in two (2) or more violations of this title for which citation tags have been affixed to the vehicle and the vehicle not removed. Any impounded vehicle shall be stored until the owner or other person entitled thereto claims it, gives satisfactory evidence of ownership or right to possession, and pays all applicable fees and costs of impoundment and storage, or until it is otherwise law­fully disposed of.

15-705.Disposal of abandoned motor vehicles. "Abandoned motor vehicles," as defined in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-31-102, shall be impounded and disposed of by the police department in accordance with the provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 55-31-301 to 55-31-110.

15-706.Violations and penalty. Any violation of this title shall be a civil offense punishable as follows: 
(1)	Traffic citations. Traffic citations shall be punishable by a civil penalty up to fifty dollars ($50.00) for each separate offense.
(2)	Parking citations. (a) Parking meter. If the offense is a parking 	meter violation, the offender may, within thirty (30) days, have the charge against him disposed of by paying to the recorder a fine of ______ dollars $_____) provided he waives his right to a judicial hearing. If he appears and waives his right to a judicial hearing after thirty (30) days, his civil penalty shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
(b)	Other parking violations excluding handicapped parking. For other parking violations, excluding handicapped parking violations, the offender may, within thirty (30) days, have the charge against him disposed of by paying to the recorder a fine of ten dollars ($10.00) provided he waives his right to a judicial hearing. If he appears and waives his right to a judicial hearing after thirty (30) days, his civil penalty shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(c)	Disabled parking violations, or parking in a space designated for disabled drivers without legal authority, shall be punishable as provided in state law, Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-21-108.